KAZAN, Russia — Many a great player has never won the World Cup, and it seems ever more likely that Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo will end up on that list. Messi is 31 now, still a master of the close-quarters dribble and the quick strike. Ronaldo is 33, still capable of scoring productively for club and country and howling into a referee’s face after receiving a yellow card for dissent. The desire remains, but so does the frustration. For all of their individual wizardry, neither has conjured a goal in the knockout phase of his sport’s essential tournament, and now they are both out of it again after being upstaged by opposing players on Saturday, the opening day of the round of 16. On a near-cloudless afternoon by the Kazanka River, Messi and his Argentine teammates were overrun and outmaneuvered here by a French team full of skill, speed, youth and, for the first time in this tournament, goals. Final score: 4-3 for France. [Up Next: Follow our live coverage of France vs. Belgium] Several hours later, by the Black Sea, Ronaldo and his Portuguese teammates were finished off in Sochi by Edinson Cavani, who scored twice, and by a resolute Uruguayan defense. Final score: 2-1 for Uruguay. France and Uruguay will face each other in the quarterfinals on Friday, while Messi and Ronaldo, the two leading men of this era, face a decision about their future with their national teams. They have won national prizes: Argentina and Messi won Olympic gold in 2008; Portugal and Ronaldo won the European Championship by surprise in 2016. But the biggest prize keeps going to others, perhaps even to France or Uruguay this year. In a World Cup in which minor miracles have become routine in the final minutes, Argentina, in the first game of the day, never stopped pushing for the equalizer. But France and its fast-emerging superstar, 19-year-old Kylian Mbappé, who scored twice and drew a penalty to create a third goal, had put the Argentines in too deep a hole by then, roaring back from a 2-1 deficit early in the second half. Les Bleus did it with three goals in a fireworks-filled 11-minute span that will be the talk of their country’s cafes and bistros. “Our team is younger, it’s true, but it responded with character against a strong, very experienced Argentine team,” Didier Deschamps, France’s coach, said afterward. “For months, we’ve thought of matches like this one. You can’t miss these opportunities, and we didn’t.” Though France had won Group C, it had done so in underwhelming fashion: scoring three goals in three games and looking disjointed. But Argentina, no longer home to the world’s best and most rugged defenders, gave Mbappé, Antoine Griezmann and Olivier Giroud more room to roam on Saturday, which was surely not part of the Argentine game plan. Mbappé made the threat clear from the start. He wanted the ball and wanted to bear the burden. And early in the game, he broke out of the French half after an Argentine error and found a gear that none of his pursuers could match. It was a surge best watched on a screen if you wanted to see the deep concern in the Argentines’ eyes, but best watched in Kazan Arena if you wanted to grasp just how much ground Mbappé was able to cover in such a short span. Marcos Rojo, the defender who had put Argentina into the knockout round with a late goal against Nigeria, finally brought Mbappé down with a push from behind in the Argentine penalty area. Referee Alireza Faghani did not hesitate to award the penalty, and felt no need to review his decision on a screen of his own. Griezmann converted the penalty kick with a low-bouncing shot down the middle as goalkeeper Franco Armani guessed wrong and dived left. That gave France a 1-0 lead in the 13th minute. It held until the 41st, when Ángel Di María, the Argentine forward, was left unmarked about 30 yards from France’s goal. He had time to make two touches before letting loose with a left-footed strike that curled away from goalkeeper Hugo Lloris and nestled into the upper right corner to make it 1-1. It was a gorgeous goal, and at halftime, any outcome seemed possible, particularly with Messi yet to make his mark. And in the 48th  minute, he created Argentina’s only lead of the afternoon. French midfielder Paul Pogba cleared a free kick from the French goal mouth. The ball bounced to Messi on the edge of the penalty area, and with Blaise Matuidi marking him closely, Messi shifted direction quickly with his back to the goal and fired a low left-footed shot that Lloris looked set to handle. But Lloris did not count on Gabriel Mercado, the Argentine defender, redirecting the shot with his left foot. Lloris was unable to change direction in time, and Argentina had a 2-1 edge. It was time, after all the anticipation surrounding this French team, to see what it was truly made of, and its World Cup rookies were the ones who provided the goals and the answers. Their response began in the 57th minute when Lucas Hernández hit a left-footed cross that bounced through the Argentine defense after a missed clearance from Nicolás Tagliafico. Benjamin Pavard, France’s curly-haired right back, closed on it and first-timed it from about 22 yards with his right foot while leaning far to his left. The physics at work were compelling on their own, and the ball traveled with sidespin into the left corner of the Argentine goal, beating a fully extended Armani. Pavard, a 22-year-old who plays for VfB Stuttgart in the German Bundesliga, had not been expected to start in this World Cup, much less provide one of its finest goals. But he has earned Deschamps’s trust in a hurry with his composure and versatility. Mbappé’s success at this level is much less of a surprise. He is one of the world’s most expensive players after his move from Monaco to Paris St.-Germain last year. “I’m very happy he’s French,” Deschamps said. “He understands football very well.’’ He is, in fact, the fleet threat who was missing from France’s attack in the 2014 World Cup, when it reached the quarterfinals. Those who remember France’s triumph in 1998 compare him to Thierry Henry, who was of similar age when he made his World Cup debut. But Mbappé is a more mature and complete threat at 19, and he can hurt you with skill as well as speed. He made that clear in the 64th minute after another Hernández cross that ended up loose in the penalty area. Mbappé collected it, evaded Federico Fazio and beat Armani low to his left side. It was 3-2 in favor of France, and it would be 4-2 just four minutes later when France again counterattacked effectively out of its half, connecting on a series of passes: Griezmann to Matuidi to Giroud, who led Mbappé with a ball that not everyone would have reached. But Mbappé, in full stride, got there before Fazio, and scored with his right foot, this time low to Armani’s right. Mbappé is the youngest player since Pelé in 1958 to score at least two goals in a World Cup game. “It’s flattering to be second to Pelé,” Mbappé said. “But we’re going to put things in context. Pelé, that’s another category.” Argentina missed goalkeeper Sergio Romero in this World Cup. The Manchester United player, who was a key figure in Argentina’s run to the World Cup final in 2014, was ruled out with a knee injury in May. But then Argentina and its embattled coach, Jorge Sampaoli, were missing a number of elements. And though the team would hardly stop pushing and even got a headed goal in the third minute of stoppage time on Saturday from Sergio Agüero, it ultimately was too vulnerable at the back and not quite decisive enough at the front. “It’s very painful to be out of the World Cup after all the effort the players made,” said Sampaoli. Messi produced two assists on Saturday, the first Argentine player to do so in a World Cup game since Diego Maradona in 1986. But once again in a knockout game, he did not score. The French generally controlled him effectively, with both their central defenders — Raphael Varane and Samuel Umtiti — very familiar with the danger he posed. Varane has faced Messi frequently at Real Madrid; Umtiti has faced him frequently as his teammate at Barcelona. Messi did manufacture a chance in the 80th minute, but after splitting two defenders and earning the opportunity to fire a right-footed shot deep in French territory, his strike lacked the necessary angle or speed. Lloris collected it without much fuss, and now Messi, who has already retired once from international soccer, looks very likely to join that unfortunate list of stars who never won a World Cup. It’s a list that includes Johan Cruyff, Ferenc Puskas, Michel Platini, Zico, Paolo Maldini and Eusébio. And Ronaldo, too. Messi’s longtime teammate Javier Mascherano, 34, a defender, announced his retirement from the national team after Saturday’s defeat. “From now on, I’m just another fan,” he said. Perhaps he will be in attendance at the next World Cup, in 2022 in Qatar, when Ronaldo will be 37 and Messi will be 35. Mbappé, though, will be all of 23, and as Messi glumly walked in the direction of the tunnel after the final whistle on Saturday, Mbappé was the first Frenchman to offer him condolences. Passing of the torch? We will see. But there was no doubt which outrageous talent burned brightest on Saturday. —— Here’s how France beat Argentina, 4-3 (by Andrew Das): A dangerous rip of a cross pings off an Argentine in the center and goes wide, and Faghani blows the whistle. Whew. What a game. France 4, Argentina 3. But we all won there. But now we’re fighting after the kickoff after a rough foul by Mercado in midfield on Pogba. Otamendi, trailing, blasts the ball into the fallen Pogba and the French are NOT pleased. That wastes a ton of time, though. And Argentina didn’t have much to spare. Aguero nods in a header deep into the four minutes of injury time, and now Argentina will try frantically for an equalizer. Thauvin on for today’s double-scorer. He also made a three-quarter field run to earn the penalty for France’s first goal. What a day for the teenager. Di Maria takes the free kick but the first man heads it wide. There’s Argentina’s tournament in a nutshell — they’ve just not been good enough. Messi threads a ball to Aguero in the area, but his shot is blocked. Now it gets a bit nasty as Mercado and Hernandez tangle on the right. Messi with a bit of brilliance — he somehow pops a ball free to himself while cutting left to right in front of Lloris. But he falls as he sends in a weak shot, and winds up on his back. N’Golo Kanté takes down Messi again; that’s been a theme today. He’s up quick, trying desperately to mount something — anything — that might produce a goal, and perhaps hope for one more after that. But France isn’t making it easy; they’ve been super today since falling behind. This is a big 10 minutes in Argentine soccer history. Messi is 31, and has already returned from the national team once, in 2016, in despair after a loss in a major tournament. Will he hang around until 2022 for what could be — with this core — more disappointment? A fifth World Cup might tempt him. Or he might just call it. We’ll see. Two subs: Meza for Argentina, replacing Pavon. He’s Sampaoli’s last sub. And Corentin Tolisso replaces Matuidi, who is carrying a yellow. They don’t want to lose him for the quarters, so that’s a safety move. Mbappé proves he’s human, butchering a first-touch volley he had hoped to send into the path of Griezmann. Pogba galloping again up the middle, finds Giroud out wide on the left side. He slashes a shot into the side netting. It’s target practice all of a sudden, and Argentina looks frazzled. Blood in the water now for France. Kylian Mbappe has given France a 4-2 lead. Kanté-Griezmann-Matuidi-Giroud-Mbappé in stride in the area. They just walked that up three-quarters of the field and into the goal. Gorgeous move. That’s Mbappé’s second today and his third of the tournament. He is 19 years old. 19!! France really showing some grit here in answer to Argentina’s fiery goals on either side of halftime. It’s going to be really hard on the loser today. Kylian Mbappé gets his second goal of the World Cup and it’s a terrific bit of close-quarter work. A cross by Hernandez from the left falls to Mbappé who, cool as a cucumber, eschews a shot to push the ball into space on the left. Once there, he hammers it under Armani. This is fun for all of us, but Sampaoli and Deschamps probably both could do with a little possession and calm now. I, for one, support more sensational goals scored from outside the penalty area. FRANCE! We’re even!!!! What a great game this is. Benjamin Pavard collects an Hernandez cross that sails through to the far side and hits a volley that may have been better than Di Maria’s, which is saying something. Outside of the foot, backspin, into the far-side netting. It’s Pavard’s first goal for France, and for a right back, it’s one to remember. Argentina what are you doing!?!?!? A back heel by Giroud into the area rolls harmlessly toward Armani until Fazio decides to play it — and taps it past him. Then it’s a frantic scramble as Griezmann nearly gets to it first. But, under pressure, he shoots wide. Trouble off the ball as Perez clips Kanté from behind. It’s a free kick for France. Mbappe taking it … The free kick is cleared and Griezmann fouls Di Maria, who for 10 full seconds is mortally wounded. Back up now. France has to be wondering what’s happened here. They give up their lead on a wondergoal just before the half, then fall BEHIND three minutes into the second on another long shot that goes in on a deflection. They’re suddenly in a world of trouble, and Argentina is not going to make it easy. Argentina immediately wins a free kick way out on the left. It’s cleared — but no it’s not!!!!!! Messi’s blast deflects off his collected clearance following the free kick, but Argentina sure doesn’t care. Looks like Mercado will get credit for the own goal — he stuck his toe in the way of Messi’s shot and wrong-footed Lloris. Back underway. Rojo, one of three Argentines to pick up a yellow in the first half, gives way to Federico Fazio. That could be an attempt to save him if they win — Mascherano’s yellow means he would miss a potential quarterfinal — or it could be a sign that they’re worried Mbappé’s pace might yield a red next time. Best of luck, Federico. That’s a tough job you just got. Di Maria’s goal was apparently measured at just over 30 yards, which makes it the longest-range goal of this World Cup, per FIFA. France will like the first 40 minutes of that, and Argentina will be thrilled with the last five or so. We’re tied but France has been dominant and organized even as Argentina has had most of the possession. But Di Maria’s rocket wiped out nearly a full half a good work, and we’re all square with a half to go. Griezmann tries to turn Mascherano deep in the right corner, but the veteran knocks the ball out. There’s the whistle. Halftime. Tie game. It’s hard to overstate how important it was for Argentina to show some life before the break. They had dominated possession with little to show for it, and going into halftime down a goal after that — with their World Cup life on the line — would have been tough to swallow. But one shot changes everything, and they’re suddenly, visibly, more alive here. Mascherano finally gets his yellow, for a two-footed challenge on Kanté. WHAT A GOAL! Argentina’s ties the game, 1-1, through Angel Di Maria. That was a rocket, and Lloris was beaten dead to rights. Bedlam in the Argentina-heavy stands. That’s the first mistake by France defensively: they just left Di Maria standing there out top alone, and when the ball came to him he took a touch and absolutely lashed a left-footed shot past a diving Lloris. That two full 20-second ‘Gooooooools’ back to back from Telemundo’s Andres Cantor. Remember, he’s an Argentine. There’s some danger from Argentina at last: Pavon gets to the end line on the right and cuts back toward the spot, but Pavard beats everyone to it and stabs the ball out. Messi down in the area, but not even he appeals for a penalty. He does not appear to like all the manhandling he’s getting though. If you’re wondering why so many people show up at these games with flags on their faces, it’s because the Russian organizers have sent teams of women out around the stadiums before each match armed with paint palettes and brushes. There are lines at every game, but they do nice work. Russia is easier than, say, Morocco. The teams trade clipped ankles and rolling tumbles of despair and agony. But Giroud actually fouled Otamendi, so it’s Argentina ball. First and 10. Pogba wins the ball and holds off Messi with a Heisman-like stiff arm. Mascherano didn’t like that, though, and in N.H.L. enforcer mode he just hammers Pogba from behind. Could have been a yellow, or a two-minute minor, but the referee decides against. Now it’s Paul Pogba loping up the center like a thoroughbred. He feeds the 19-year old Mbappé on the right as he approaches the area, but he tries to cut back and loses the ball. A minute later he and Olivier Giroud break in, but Giroud zigs as the pass zags, and the chance rolls right into Armani’s arms. Messi just walking in midfield now, almost a decoy. France is keeping a close watch on him, though, so he’s going to have to work really hard to find some space to be Messi. Mercado on an overlapping run into the area lifts the ball and it hits Umtiti’s arm as it sails harmlessly through the crease in front of Lloris. He appeals for a penalty but V.A.R. clearly sees that as unintentional, because the game promptly continues. (Remember, they can tell the referee in real time what they’ve seen, and he can take their word.) Argentina has had 70 percent possession so far, but hasn’t mustered so much as a single shot. France, meanwhile, has hit the crossbar and scored a goal with its rare bits of possession. Umtiti goes down at the other end as Lloris charges left to smother a chance. It looks like Perez may have caught Umtiti, but they shake hands and there’s no VAR to see if something untoward occurred. Argentina has now given up more goals (six) than any team left in the tournament. They and Spain were both at five in the group stage. Kylian Mbappé clearly has instructions to run at the back four every chance he gets. And he will get more chances. Christopher Clarey: France’s 4 goals in this World Cup so far: penalty, own goal, tap-in after deflection and penalty Pogba skies it. Tough to get it up and down over the wall from that close. But also tough to get it down when you only hit it up. Pogba and Griezmann over it again ......They seem to be negotiating. Mbappé in again! He’s tormenting Argentina. He splits the center backs again and is pulled down by Rojo AGAIN. This one is just outside the area though, sparing Argentina another penalty. That probably keeps Rojo in the game, too, since he got a yellow on the earlier penalty. This one was about six inches outside the area, and the referee lets him slide. Argentina’s Angel Di Maria fails to beat the first defender with a free kick on the left. It’s also a disastrous start for Argentina, exposing what has been their weak spot all tournament: a defense that just isn’t up to World Cup-winning standards. Antoine Griezmann rolls it calmly almost straight up the middle as Armani dives to his left. That’s the start France needed, and the goal that Griezmann needed. No doubt about it; Kylian Mbappé with a solo run that causes panic in the back, and Rojo, beaten around the corner, pulls him down. Mbappé is down, but what a run: straight up the middle and leaving at least four Argentines in the dust. Rojo just reached in in vain, and they went down together. Griezmann will take the penalty kick. What a rocket off the free kick; Armani just watched it from the ground. The first chance of the game is a near miss, but a good sign if you’re France. Argentina’s setup so far appears to be Messi alone up front, with five midfielders in support and Mascherano standing in the middle pointing and yelling about where everyone with the ball should send it next. A super through ball springs Di Maria on the left, but his cross is airmailed and goes out for a goal kick. Messi looks over as if to say, “Duuuudde .......” Dangerous chance comes out of it though, with a free kick on the left, but France clears. Matuidi whacks Messi as he tries to cut inside. More physical play, and volunteer referee Javier Mascherano is quick to point out that’s a couple times the little man has been bodied already. Messi gets his first touch, but a pressing France (well, Kanté) immediately dispossesses him. He’s going to be all over the Argentine captain today, and he’s very good at that. The game lasts only seconds before Giroud trucks Tagliafico chasing a header. That may be a message, or just hyper-nerves. But it won’t be the last time Giroud runs over an Argentine, trust us. O.K., the anthems are done. Here we go. Warm hug between France’s Umtiti and Messi in the handshake line; they’re teammates at Barcelona. Rojo and Pogba will know each other from Manchester United, too. France will be in blue with white shorts today. Argentina is in its traditional blue-and-white stripes with black shorts. Our referee today is Alireza Faghani of Iran. It’s an Italian V.A.R. crew. Argentina drops Aguero again, and starts with Di Maria and Pavon up front flanking Messi. 12 Franco Armani (River Plate) 2 Gabriel Mercado (Sevilla) 17 Nicolas Otamendi (Manchester City) 16 Marcos Rojo (Manchester United) 3 Nicolas Tagliafico (Ajax) 15 Enzo Perez (Boca Juniors) 14 Javier Mascherano (Hebei Fortune) 7 Ever Banega (Sevilla) 22 Cristian Pavon (Boca Juniors) 10 Lionel Messi (Barcelona) 11 Angel di María (Paris St Germain) France goes back to its A-list: 1 Hugo Lloris (Tottenham) 2 Benjamin Pavard (Stuttgart) 4 Raphael Varane (Real Madrid) 5 Samuel Umtiti (Barcelona) 21 Lucas Hernandez (Atlético Madrid) 13 N’Golo Kanté (Chelsea) 6 Paul Pogba (Manchester United) 10 Kylian Mbappé (Paris St Germain) 7 Antoine Griezmann (Atlético Madrid) 14 Blaise Matuidi (Juventus) 9 Olivier Giroud (Chelsea) 