KAZAN, Russia — It was one of the most spectacular goals of this World Cup, and what made Benjamin Pavard’s 20-yard half-volley against Argentina all the more remarkable was that so few saw him coming. A little more than a year ago, Pavard, 22, was playing in the German second division with Stuttgart. Called up to France’s national team for the first time in November, he was not expected to make Manager Didier Deschamps’s final 23-man roster for the World Cup in Russia. He certainly was not expected to displace the incumbent at right back, Djibril Sidibé, in the starting lineup. But there was Pavard at the heart of the matter on Saturday, making his mark — and the World Cup highlight reel. Pavard pounced with Les Bleus trailing Argentina by 2-1 in the second half, scoring not only his first goal for France but the first goal of his career with his foot. [Up Next: Follow our live coverage of England vs. Sweden] “I’ve scored two goals with my head, but, I mean, I never score goals,” he said after France’s 4-3 victory earned it a place in the quarterfinals against Uruguay on Friday. “But the ball came, and I did not ask myself a bunch of questions. And it worked.” France-Argentina was a white-knuckle ride, full of quick strikes, abrupt shifts in fortune and, of course, goals. But if the French get past Uruguay on Friday and continue their latest deep run in a World Cup, Pavard’s goal will loom ever larger. Argentina had commandeered the momentum by taking the lead in the 48th minute. Pavard was covering Gabriel Mercado when Mercado redirected Lionel Messi’s shot past French goalkeeper Hugo Lloris to make score 2-1. But Pavard compensated memorably just nine minutes later, combining with the other 22-year-old newcomer in France’s back four: Lucas Hernández. Hernández’s lunging cross from the left wing bounced twice through the core of the Argentine defense. Pavard, leaning far to his left, met the ball in midair with the outside of his right foot. “I took at as it came,” he said. “I told myself that I have to hit it well, and that was the most natural motion. And I also said to myself that I have to keep the ball low so I have to get my weight forward.” Pavard’s parents, Nathalie and Fréderic, were watching in Jeumont, in northern France on the Belgian border. Jeumont, with just under 10,000 inhabitants, is also where Jean-Pierre Papin, a striker who was once one of France’s biggest stars, began to play the game. Pavard’s father was a defender for US Maubeuge in the French third division before coaching amateur teams in the region. Now he works in a local hospital. Pavard, an only child, grew up learning from his father and watching his teams, absorbing the nuances and developing his own ambitions. Pursuing them came at considerable personal cost. Pavard left home when he was 10 to train in the youth program with the French club Lille. He boarded with a series of host families. Pavard grew emotional Sunday when he saw a video made for him by his parents that was played on the French television program Téléfoot. “We are very proud of you, and we are living a magical moment thanks to you,” his mother said. “Good luck the rest of the way. We send you kisses and will see you very soon.” Pavard teared up as he listened. “These are my parents,” he said. “They made enormous sacrifices since I was very young. You cannot forget that I left when I was 10 years old. I was far from my family. Really, they traveled so many kilometers for me. I can never thank them enough for all the efforts they made.” His success with Les Bleus is a reward for them, too, he said. Pavard probably would not be playing such a prominent role if not for an injury to Sidibé’s right knee, sustained on April 15 as Paris Saint-Germain routed Sidibé’s AS Monaco team, 7-1. Sidibé was in doubt for the World Cup, and then, after securing his spot, nearly went home after the knee swelled again in Russia. Sidibé did start the third group match against Denmark after France already had clinched a spot in the knockout round. Pavard has started France’s other three matches. “I haven’t asked the coach for explanations,” Sidibé said at a news conference in Russia. “In this context, you’ve got to put personal feelings aside.” Pavard, who has particularly curly hair, has been nicknamed “Jeff Tuche” by his French teammates after the curly-haired father in the French comedy film series “Les Tuches.” Pavard confessed to being weary of the nickname, but he has kept playing along, just as he has kept playing along when his teammates tell him, with his small-town French roots and throwback tastes in music, that he belongs to another time. His game is fully compliant with 21st century norms, though, and his play in Russia is beginning to draw interest from some of Europe’s elite clubs, including Bayern Munich. To reach this level, Pavard felt he had to leave France altogether. After playing little for Lille during the 2015-16 season, he decided to accept Stuttgart’s offer even though the once-powerhouse club had just been relegated to the second tier in Germany. Some in the French soccer world told him he was making a mistake. Pavard said the risk and the need to adapt to another culture helped him mature. Stuttgart earned promotion back to the Bundesliga in his first season. He played a variety of positions, including midfielder, but after the arrival of new coach Tayfun Korkut in late January, Pavard began playing exclusively as a central defender. He played every minute of all 34 matches as Stuttgart finished seventh in the league. But Deschamps has used him at right back, which makes for a historical parallel with Lilian Thuram, Deschamps’ teammate when France won its only World Cup, in 1998. Thuram preferred the center back position that he played with his Italian club, Parma, but France’s coach at the time, Aimé Jacquet, used him at right back. Thuram scored twice during France’s semifinal win over Croatia that year. As Pavard has been wise to point out, there is no sense making too many comparisons too quickly. Thuram was one of the best defenders France has produced. Pavard is just getting started. Yet, few will soon forget his goal against Argentina. Pavard joked that he had “killed a pigeon” with a similar attempt in practice that soared off his foot, but this time he left the pigeons in peace. Not the Argentines, though. The arc of his spinning shot carried it beyond the reach of Franco Armani, the diving Argentine keeper, and into the left side netting. Javier Mascherano, the veteran Argentine defender, said the equalizer really hurt his team. Bixente Lizarazu, the former star French defender who is now French network TF1’s lead analyst for the World Cup said it was as though Pavard’s goal “counted double” in terms of the impact. Since Pavard scores so rarely, he said he didn’t know how to celebrate. He improvised well: sliding wide-eyed toward the French bench on his knees. He stopped just in time to get engulfed by his teammates and the French support staff. It has been quite the start. France has yet to lose a match when he has been selected: not at the youth level and not in his nine matches with the senior team. “I’m going to try to forget I heard that,” he said. Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the score after Gabriel Mercado redirected Lionel Messi’s shot past French goalkeeper Hugo Lloris. Argentina led by 2-1, not 1-0. The article also misstated the time of that goal. It was in the 48th minute, not the 57th minute. 