Chennai Super Kings (CSK) are the winners of IPL 2018
Chennai Super Kings defeated Sunrisers Hyderabad by 8 wickets in the final of the 2018 Indian Premier League at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai.CSK lifted their third IPL trophy on Sunday.Chasing 179 for victory, seasoned Australian opener Watson smashed an unbeaten 57-ball 117, his fourth IPL hundred, as M.S. Dhoni's team bagged their third crown after returning to the fold following a two-year suspension.Chennai piled up 181/2 in 18.3 overs against Sunrisers' 178/6 in 20 overs, riding on skipper Kane Williamson's 36-ball 47 and Yusuf Pathan's 21 off 11 balls.Ambati Rayudu (who won the IPL in 2013, 2015, 2017 and 2018) equals Rohit Sharma ( who won 2009, 2013, 2015 & 2017) for the most wins in IPL finals.Indian Premier League winners: 2008 - Rajasthan Royals2009 - Deccan Chargers2010 - Chennai Super Kings2011 - Chennai Super Kings2012 - Kolkata Knight Riders2013 - Mumbai Indians2014 - Kolkata Knight Riders2015 - Mumbai Indians2016 - Sunrisers Hyderabad2017 - Mumbai Indians2018 - Chennai Super KingsHere's who won what:Sunil Narine was awarded the Most Valubale Player (MVP) as he took 357 runs and 17 wickets from 16 matches."Unfortunately I couldn't be there as our team were knocked out. Really wish we were in the finals. It has been a successful journey with the bat and ball. I would like to continue it and I really wish I could be there to collect the award," he said in a pre-rocorded message.Kane Williamson won the Orange cap with 735 runs from 17 matches.Andrew Tye won the Purple cap with 24 wickets from 14 matches."I accept the purple cap with great honour. India's been a great place with a lot of memories to take home. Unfortunately our team couldn't make it to the finals but we'll try hard to get back next year," he said.Stylish Player of the Season - Rishabh Pant -- He mints another 1000 grandSuper Striker of the Season - Sunil Narine -- Well he isn't here tooPerfect Catch of the Season - Trent Boult -- Well he's gone back, Rishabh Pant collects on his behalfIPL Fairplay award - Mumbai Indians -- Aditya Tare collectsRishabh Pant was awarded the Emerging player of the season. The 20-year-old scored 684 runs from 14 matches at an average of 52.61 with a highest of unbeaten 128 against Delhi Daredevils."I enjoyed the whole tournament; but it didn't go well for the team though. When you play a lot of matches you get confidence and that helps me and the team. Last year I was trying to hit a lot of sixes, but in this season I've stopped my instincts from taking over," he said.Pitch and ground award - Punjab Cricket Association (For grounds who've hosted less than seven matches)Pitch and ground award - Cricket Association of Bengal (For those grounds who've hosted seven matches or more)Shane Watson was the Man-of-the-match of the final, after he scored the highest individual score in an IPL final."It's been a special season to be honest. To get a special season especially after the last season with RCB. It means a lot to be with a franchise like CSK. After those first ten balls I was only hoping to catch up to at least a run-a-ball. Bhuvi is really good with the new ball and was lucky to get the opportunity to catch up. It was good that I got a couple of boundaries to hit and get on par to take it from there," he said."The good thing is that I wouldn't be playing for the next three-four months; feels great. It gives me plenty of time to recover. Throughout the back end of the tournament I was hanging on for dear life, Stephen Fleming and MS Dhoni have been looking after me really well and I am really glad to contribute like I did tonight," he added.Here's what the CSK players said after the win:Karn Sharma: I was prepared and was waiting for my chances to grab the opportunities I got. Harbhajan Singh: Brilliant the way we came out and chase it down. To see what Watson what he brings to the table, you know how many runs you might get, it is always chaseable. Fourth IPL time for me and I am glad. I mean considering that Kane was in good form and they had a lot of middle-order batsmen who were right-handers, Dhoni was right that he needed someone who would take the ball away from the batsman. We have seen wrist spinners bowling more and more overs in the IPL compared to finger spinners. But I hope it would change next year. Well done to Karn and glad be on the winning side. Karn Sharma: I was prepared and was waiting for my chances to grab the opportunities I got. Deepak Chahar: I enjoyed bowling with the new ball. I have been waiting for my chance and this year I got my chance. Thanks to Mahi bhai for believing in me; batting, bowling and fielding. It is everyone's dream to play in the IPL and win it, one of my dreams have come true. Shardul Thakur: It is great. Last year I was part of final, but couldn't win it. But this year we won it and it is incredible. I am feeling at top of the world. I think I had the last game in my mind, had to bowl well in the death. More often than not you get hit in this format. Today I was on top of my game and executed the plans. Lungi Ngidi: Very amazing. It's been a rollercoaster of emotions. Good to come away with a win and lucky to be part of an IPL winning side. Not many people get to experience such a moment. It's lovely to have the death bowling responsibility on your shoulders and take it in your stride, one ball at a time in a pressure situation and its great to help the team win. Ravindra Jadeja: It is good to be part of a champion team. We did a great job on and off the field because we have played as a team despite wining or losing. We've participated after two years and am very glad to finish as champions. Dwayne Bravo: It has been good. This is a special moment. The team did not play together for the last two years. We had to move from Chennai after one game.For most of the guys, this is their first time. We were able to keep focus and do it. Nothing is better than winning finals. We always said experience will help in crunch time. Watson batted on one leg and despite the hamstring, his experience helped him. Watson is a world class player. Ambati Rayudu: I was really fortunate to have such a season for Chennai. I worked really hard for it and am glad that I could hit the winning runs. Initially the wicket looked a little slow, it was damp, got much quicker and I am glad we could chase it down.(With inputs from IANS)