'Your thumb is your bank': PM Modi launches UPI based mobile payment BHIM app

Your thumb is your bank, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the launch of Aadhaar-based payment app, BHIM, in New Delhi on Friday. 

Calling it the world’s biggest wonder, the PM said anyone can make e-payments now. 

What is BHIM app? 

BHIM stands for Bharat Interface for Money. It is an app that lets you make quick transactions using Unified Payment Interface (UPI). 
PM calls BHIM app as the world’s biggest wonder, which helps anyone to make e-payments now
+3

PM calls BHIM app as the world’s biggest wonder, which helps anyone to make e-payments now

The payments are made directly from bank account to bank account using just mobile number or payment address and one does not have to add money like a digital wallet.

How can I get it on my phone? 

The BHIM app is available for download on the Google Play store for free. An iOS version of the app will also be launched soon. 

Do I require a smartphone and internet connection? 

Apart from an app, the interface can be accessed using USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) from feature phones - you will need to dial *99# to access it. 

With this method, an Internet connection will not be required. 

How does the app work? 

After downloading the BHIM app from the Play store, the user has to register his/her bank account and set up a UPI Pin for it. 

The user’s mobile number will become the payment address. Once registered, you can start transacting using the BHIM app. 

Through the app, you can send or receive money to a phone number, check balance, or scan a QR code to make a payment without sharing a phone number. 
Merchants need to download the Aadhaar cashless merchant app on their smartphones connected to a biometric reader, which is currently available for Rs 2,000.
+3

Merchants need to download the Aadhaar cashless merchant app on their smartphones connected to a biometric reader, which is currently available for Rs 2,000.

Money can also be sent to non-UPI banks through IFSC, like you do with normal net banking. 

How is Aadhaar card tied into the service? 

Merchants need to download the Aadhaar cashless merchant app on their smartphones connected to a biometric reader, which is currently available for Rs 2,000. 

The customer will then feed the Aadhar number into the merchant’s app, select the bank through which the transaction will take place, and the biometric scan will work as a password for the transaction to be authenticated.
There is a maximum limit of Rs 10,000 per transaction, and Rs 20,000 within 24 hours 
+3

There is a maximum limit of Rs 10,000 per transaction, and Rs 20,000 within 24 hours 

Are there transaction limits?

There is a maximum limit of Rs 10,000 per transaction, and Rs 20,000 within 24 hours. 

These limits are much higher than what is offered by competing apps, with most digital wallets limiting transactions to between Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000 per month. 

Which bank supports the app? 

All UPI-connected banks accept BHIM. 

This includes all major Indian banks including SBI, ICICI, Axis, and HDFC and other nationalized banks. 

Banks that are not connected to UPI can also receive money through IFSC.  
