
Brexit officially begins as Theresa May triggers Article 50
British leader says there is ‘no turning back’ but Angela Merkel resists parallel talks bid

Britain has triggered the process of leaving the European Union, UK prime minister Theresa May tells lawmakers in the British parliament, describing it as "an historic moment from which there can be no turning back". Video: Reuters
 
British prime minister Theresa May formally began the UK’s divorce from the EU on Wednesday, ushering in a tortuous exit process that will test the bloc’s cohesion and pitch her country into the unknown.

In one of the most significant steps by a British leader since the second World War, Ms May notified European Council president Donald Tusk in a hand-delivered letter that the UK would quit the club it joined in 1973.

“The UK is leaving the EU,” Ms May told the House of Commons on Wednesday, nine months after Britain shocked investors and world leaders by voting to quit the bloc in a referendum last June.

“This is an historic moment from which there can be no turning back.”

The British prime minister, who initially opposed Brexit and won the job in the political turmoil that followed the referendum vote, now has two years to negotiate the terms of Brexit before it comes into effect in late March 2019.

However, Ms May is facing resistance from German chancellor Angela Merkel and the European Parliament to her goal of conducting negotiations on the UK’s future trade relations with Europe at the same time as talks on arrangements for Brexit.

Ms Merkel said talks must first clarify how to unravel the commitments, rights and duties which the UK had entered into over its 44-year membership.

Ms Merkel added Germany would strive in negotiations to make sure there was as little disruption as possible to the lives of EU citizens living in the UK.

Stressing that UK and the EU would remain close partners, she said the prospect of Brexit made many people in Europe worried about their own personal future.
