Here’s a look at what’s coming up this week. ECONOMY On Tuesday at 10 a.m., the Conference Board will release its reading on consumer sentiment for March. The Consumer Confidence Index is expected to fall slightly to 113.6 from 114.8 in February, but that’s still considered a healthy level. February’s reading was the highest in more than 15 years. Nelson D. Schwartz FINANCIAL INDUSTRY Theresa May, the British prime minister, is expected to invoke Article 50 on Wednesday, beginning the formal, two-year process of negotiating Britain’s exit from the Europe Union, known as “Brexit.” Corporations that have made Britain their European headquarters will be closely watching the negotiations to determine how their businesses might be affected. The outcome of the negotiations will be especially critical for financial companies, which may have to relocate employees and some operations to continue to provide services to Europe-based clients. A number of banks and insurers have already indicated they will probably move some employees to countries in the European Union. More announcements may come this week as the process begins. Chad Bray TECHNOLOGY Samsung Electronics, the South Korean manufacturer that gained notoriety after a number of its Galaxy Note smartphones caught fire last year, is hoping to find a path to redemption. On Wednesday, the company will introduce the Galaxy S8, its first notable smartphone release since the debacle, in New York. Brian X. Chen ECONOMY On Friday at 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department will release figures on personal income and spending in February. Economists expect to see a rise of 0.4 of a percentage point in income, and an increase of 0.2 of a percentage point in spending. A similar increase in incomes was seen in January, and if the consensus estimate is correct, February’s figures are a sign that steady hiring and falling unemployment are finally beginning to result in higher wages for most workers. On the other hand, warm weather in February reduced fuel purchases, while retail sales were also soft, lowering projected personal spending. Nelson D. Schwartz 