Modi's attack on black money: Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes demonetised
MUMBAI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes will cease to be legal tender at midnight in a late evening address to the nation on Tuesday, unleashing his government’s latest attempt to root out black money, corruption and terror financing.  The surprise move left fellow citizens flabbergasted as they sought to digest what this would mean to their daily lives but Modi exhorted them to look beyond any passing misery.  “Let us ignore the temporary hardship,” he urged. “Let us join this festival of integrity and credibility.” Modi also said that new Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes will be issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).  India Inc praised the move, although some surmised that the “surgical strike” on black money could disrupt the functioning of the economy in the short term and lower the value of assets such as real estate.  Also Read: Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes banned: Your questions answered by RBI  “Demonetising high-denomination notes can be an effective means of checking accumulation of wealth in cash,” said Confederation of Indian Industry President Naushad Forbes. “The government has taken a measure aimed at the heart of the black cash economy. CII congratulates the prime minister and the government for this step.”    Currency notes can be exchanged at banks and post offices from November 10 to December 30. “Keeping in mind the supply of new notes, in the first few days, there will be a limit of Rs 10,000 per day and Rs 20,000 per week,” Modi said. “This limit will be increased in the coming days.”  From November 10 to 24, the limit for exchange will be Rs 4,000. That will be increased from then to December 30. Beyond that, exchanges can be made at specified Reserve Bank offices until March 31, 2017.  ATMs won’t work on Wednesday and in some places on November 10 as well. “In the first few days, there will be a limit of Rs 2,000 per day per card,” Modi said. But government hospitals, petrol stations, the railways and crematoriums will accept cash payments in those denominations for a few days.  “This is a surgical strike on black money,” said Revenue Secretary Hasmukh Adhia.  Economic Affairs Secretary Shaktikanta Das said, “The circulation of black money and fake currency notes increases inflation and corrode the very nature of our nation.” More high-value notes have entered the system lately.  “The circulation of high-denomination currency notes has also gone up significantly over the last few years or so,” he said. “Between 2011 and 2016 the circulation of all currency notes from the lowest denomination to the highest denomination have grown by about 40%.”  Modi called on citizens to join the effort aimed at ending the scourge of black money, likening it to an infestation of termites.  “In this fight against corruption, black money, fake notes and terrorism, in this movement for purifying our country, will our people not put up with difficulties for some days? I have full confidence that every citizen will stand up and participate in this mahayagna,” he said.  SOME CRITICISM  Among those to criticise the move was West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.  “The PM could not get back the promised black money from abroad from the rich so a drama to divert his failure,” Banerjee tweeted minutes after the announcement. “This is a financial chaos and disaster let loose on the common people of India.”  The move follows the income disclosure scheme that ended on September 30 and collected about Rs 65,000 crore. This is the second time since Independence that the government has banned certain high denominations to ensure higher tax compliance after Morarji Desai did so in the 70s.  RBI is prepared to meet the challenge and has been ramping up the production of currencies that will continue to be legal lender.  Also Read: Prime Minister Narendra Modi's full speech  “The opportune moment for old series bank notes is when we are ready with replacing them with the new series bank notes and also adequate number of new series notes,” said RBI Governor Urjit Patel. “As of today and over the past weeks and months we have ramped (up) our production and are ready to meet such a requirement in the weeks and days to come.”  ‘ONLY WAY TO GET BLACK MONEY’  “It is the only way to get black money from the system,” said Deepak Parekh, chairman of Housing Development Finance Corp. “There will be some lull in the economy for the short term. Construction activities would be affected. It is a bold move before the Uttar Pradesh elections.”  ICICI Bank Chief Executive Officer Chanda Kochhar said, “It is perhaps the most significant move ever taken to curtail the parallel economy.”  The move will push people toward non-cash transactions.  “It’s a hugely positive development,” said Snapdeal CEO Kunal Bahl. “A much larger proportion of India’s GDP will now flow through digital pipes. It will boost the digital economy and instruments like wallets.”  Kishore Biyani of Future Group said its stores would remain open so people use up their Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes.  “For the benefit of consumer we are asking our stores to be open till 11.50 pm to help people buy their daily needs,” he said.  GOOD TIMING  “The timing of the move — after the voluntary disclosure scheme and before GST (goods and services tax) implementation — couldn’t have been better, though it will be a logistical nightmare for the first few days,” said an economist with a global financial services firm requesting anonymity.  Real estate, jewellery and luxury goods may be the worst hit as these are avenues into which black money is funnelled.  The decision could also disrupt bank operations and increase their cost of operations. Bank ATMs designed to dispense the abolished denominations may have to be recalibrated.