What is demonetisation and why was it done
In a 40 minute long speech Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the demonetization of existing notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 during a televised address on Tuesday evening.   Modi announced that the notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 "will not be legal tender from midnight tonight" and these will be "just worthless pieces of paper. PM also urged people to ‘join this mahayajna against the ills of corruption.  Here is a guide for you explaining everything about the move.  What is demonetization of currency? Demonetization for us means that Reserve Bank of India has withdrawn the old Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes as a official mode of payment. According to Investopedia, demonetization is the act of stripping a currency unit of its status as legal tender.  What was the reason? The reasoning given by Modi was:  1) To tackle black money in the economy.  2) To lower the cash circulation in the country which "is directly related to corruption in our country, " according to PM Modi.  3) To eliminate fake currency and dodgy funds which have been used by terror groups to fund terrorism in India.  4) The move is estimated to scoop out more than more than Rs 5 lakh crore black money from the economy, according to Baba Ramdev, a staunch Modi supporter.  Who needs to worry? Not the honest taxpayers. Even if you have Rs 10 lakhs as cash with you and you can prove its legitimacy, you don’t need to worry.  The surprise move by government is a disaster for people who have accumulated lakhs and crores of unaccounted cash under their pillows and mattresses. The winter is coming and these worthless pieces of paper can provide the corrupt some ephemeral warmth.  What experts think? Almost all the stalwarts of the banking sector including Deepak Parekh, Chanda Kocchar think that the move will help curb black money in the economy.  According to MD & CEO, ICICI Bank Chanda Kochhar who told ET Now, "this move will definitely bring about a whole amount of transition to no cash or low cash kind of transactions,".   "A parallel black economy will collpase," one of the leading lawyers in taxation laws, Harish Salve told ET Now.  Narayana Murthy, founder of the Infosys, welcomed the government's move in its fight against corruption. Murthy also added that "the dishonest will have to suffer, absolutely that is the right thing."  HDFC Chairman Deepak Parekh anticipated that the Land will become cheaper and "one expects that real estate price will come down in medium term."   But with all the positives, government has not been able to explain anything for the people who don't have a bank account.