Demonetisation impact: Ecommerce players like Flipkart & Zomato brace for a drop in sales
NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Online commerce companies are bracing for a drop in sales in the near –term as they begin to accept cash only in the form stipulated in the union government’s demonetisation scheme announced on Tuesday night.  Amazon India stopped accepting cash-on-delivery on Wednesday, while Flipkart and Snapdeal limited such orders to below Rs 1,000. These companies also stopped accepting old denomination notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1000, asking customers to instead use electronic payments or keep valid currency at hand.  These measures have impacted daily operations according to company executives ET spoke to, as companies ranging from the country’s largest online retailer- Flipkart- to food discovery and delivery portal Zomato accept cash for an estimated 60-70% of orders.  A representative for Amazon said the company is “working on alternatives to make doorstep payments easier for customers by introducing a variety of electronic payment options.”  A top executive at Flipkart executive admitted that business will be impacted over the next few weeks, but he expects CoD to contribute a significant part of sales as new currency notes roll out. “Most of the online retail industry is still in metros and tier-I and tier-II cities,” he said.  While cab hailing applications Ola and Uber were accepting cash payments, food delivery players Zomato and Swiggy have temporarily stopped accepting payment by cash. Ola said it saw a 15-fold increase in number of wallet recharges, with small towns with high cash usage seeing a 30 times jump.  Online commerce companies are all aiming to reintroduce cash-on-delivery within a week’s time. Some online retailers like Flipkart and Amazon India also have delivery executives who carry point of sale (PoS) machines, allowing customers to swipe their debit or credit after they receive the product.  Analysts estimate that business will be hit, though the full impact will depend on how quickly government rolls out new Rs 500 and Rs 2000 denomination notes beginning on Friday.  "The cash on delivery share will come down and it will force customers to make payments online. Initially, in the next 1-2 months it may hurt ecommerce companies," said Satish Meena, forecast analyst at Forrester Research.  A reduction in the quantum of cash –based payments is expected to help online retailers save on the cost of processing such orders and also reduce returns - which are pegged at 20-30% of all online retail orders.  According to two industry sources, the cost of cash on delivery orders is 2-2.5% of order value or Rs 30-50, whichever is higher, which is a major cost center for ecommerce companies.  “Relying on cash on delivery further increases the number of returns,” the chief executive of a logistics company told ET.  The move comes at a time when Indian online retailers have just closed a season of festive sales in October, during which the industry is expected to have sold products worth Rs 13,500 crore, according research firm RedSeer.  Some players tracking the space feel that the impact of the move will be much more, as a part of the online retail transactions were driven by black money.  “About 40% of CoD was driven by black money according to a study done two years ago,” said PayU India CEO Amrish Rau,  “This will have a serious impact on GMV as not all CoD will move digital payments. In the rural economy where consumers are still not that comfortable with digital money yet and who are still adapting to internet will stay away,” said Rau. 