Did Pakistan force Modi government to scrap Rs 500, Rs 1,000 notes?
NEW DELHI: The government’s decision to demonetise Rs 500 notes was primarily prompted by reports from security agencies that revealed rampant use of notes of this denomination in fake currency network.  Officials told ET that the government was initially reluctant to scrap Rs 500 notes, but the Prime Minister’s Office finally took the decision to demonetise Rs 500 notes along with Rs 1,000 notes after a close study of reports from security agencies.  “The government was initially keen to scrap Rs 1,000 notes as this would have impacted black money economy as well as FICN (fake Indian currency notes) trade. The option of not scrapping Rs 500 notes was discussed due to its severe impact on masses,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be identified. In more than 95% cases, fake Rs 500 notes were traced to Pakistan, the official said.  Indian agencies seized more than three lakh counterfeit currency notes of Rs 500 denomination in 2015, according to data available with the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB). The figures being compiled by the NCRB for 2016 till October 31 could be much higher, officials said.  A recent study conducted by Kolkata’s Statistical Institute pegged the face value of fake notes in circulation at about Rs 400 crore. It said the value of fake notes in circulation has remained constant for the past years and estimated that the middlemen and dealers in fake currency may be raking in 30-60% commission.  The National Investigation Agency concluded in a detailed study conducted on fake notes seized in various cases: “The pulp [has been] found to be 100% rag in the FICN, which is normally used in making currency papers. The perfection of window and watermarks formation indicate the manufacture of FICN paper on a regular currency-making machine, which can only be owned by a country/state.”  India has repeatedly complained to the intergovernmental Financial Action Task Force (FATF) about fake Indian currency notes being printed in Pakistan and smuggled into the country.  The 36-member FATF, which coordinates global efforts to combat money laundering and terror financing, has acknowledged flow of fake currency notes from Pakistan to India and their use in financing terrorism against India.  In a report in June 2013 the FATF had stated that high-quality counterfeit Indian notes were “printed in Pakistan and then smuggled into India through transit points at Dhaka (Bangladesh), Sri Lanka, United Arab Emirates and Bangkok (Thailand)”. India, which joined the FATF in 2010, had conveyed to the task force that fake currency notes were being printed with state-of-the art technologies which did not appear to have been developed by Pakistan. 