Modi move a huge blow to purchasing power, may backfire on PM: Swaminathan Aiyer
 In a chat with ET Now, Swaminathan Aiyer, Consulting Editor, ET, says there will be some people with black money who will be trapped but there is going to be huge distress on the behalf of lots of ordinary common people holding Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes who will suddenly find they cannot use them. Edited excerpts  This seems to be a bold move. But will this have the required result because people do not keep stash of cash at home or in their lockers? What they really do is they put an accountant for wealth in the pipeline. 	Let me say that this particular move is going to cause a lot of pain in the short run to everybody. Life is going to become difficult for everybody from the poor to the richest to the “blackers”, to the “whiters’’ – holders of all kind of money. This is deliberate. I think Modi recognises it. He seems to think that at the end of it there will be a net gain. 	It is true is that there has been a massive increase in the amount of cash in circulation in the last few years. Some of it will be with people who are using it for various nefarious means for tax evasion and idea is to try and catch them. 	But in the process, there are millions of people especially in rural where there has always been a cash economy, there is no cheque economy, no credit card economy. So fact is that you are creating a problem for 100% of the people to catch the top 0.1% of the people. So there is going to be huge distress and uncertainty. 	As far as the real economy is concerned, there is going to be huge blow to purchasing power. All kinds of people who were accepting notes are going to refuse to accept the notes and suddenly huge amount of purchasing power will dry up. There will be complete uncertainty on whether or not anybody can accept this note or accept that note. 	To try and replace the old notes by the new notes will take a lot of time and in that time there can be a huge fall in sales, very wide variety of items especially those that were conventionally brought. 	Rs 500 today is not a large sum of money. There are fruits selling at Rs 500 a kg in some cases. So as such, this enormous distress is being created. Will it result in the stoppage of a large amount of black money? In the long run at a discount of 20-30%, the biggest holder will find various ways of getting rid of this money in small lots and pieces into rural India. There will be some loss but black money will not end. 	Let me also say that the notion that you can stop black money just by demonetisation is wrong. You can run out of Rs 2000 note but even more than that there is something called gold coin worth Rs 31,000. I have already heard that there are people who are doing deals in black money in gold coins and not in rupee notes. So if all that you do as a result of this is to greatly increase the demand for gold coins, it is actually a negative for the economy. 	On balance, yes there will be some people with black money who will be trapped, who will get impoverished. They may not be able to utilise it because they will lose whatever they have to lose in order to try and convert their money into white but there is going to be huge distress on the behalf of lots of ordinary common people holding 500 and 1000 rupee note who will suddenly find they cannot use them and queue up in front of banks to try and convert these and go through all the paperwork. 	There is going to be bedlams in the banks and a bad scene for individuals.. There is going to be a huge fall in effective purchasing power in markets of all kinds. There is going to be huge distress in a large number of households. And yes, of course, there will also be distress among certain amount of black money operators or among counterfeiter or Pakistani agents using it. 	Modi is gambling that there will ultimately be such a positive thing saying I have cracked down on black money and counterfeiters that it will offset the distress being caused to the public. I am not sure that is entirely true. As a political gambit, this is a very risky gambit. It is going to cause a lot of pain to everybody. It may even backfire on Modi.  