Demonetization should not create Inspector Raj
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has banned Rs 500 and Rs 1000 currency notes, putting the fear of god on tax evaders. They were offered a chance to come clean, with two schemes to declare their hidden wealth. Having dangled a carrot, the government wants to use the stick to crack down on evaders. A businessman could declare cash as his current income and pay tax and bring cash on the books. But the danger is that many people would turn to idle assets like gold, leading to a surge in imports and that’s bad for the economy.  Also, for those who diligently pay tax, demonetization will be an administrative nightmare. The efficacy of demonetisation in flushing out illegal wealth is at its highest when it comes as a surprise reckon economists. But then it also causes the maximum hardship on law-abiding citizens and economic agents, especially small economic units. Imagine, long-winding cues in banks with people rushing to exchange their old notes for the new series. Can banks to cope with the pressure of handling the volumes?  Has the government thought through the entire exercise? Demonetization is complex to administer and may even needlessly push inspector raj. Sure, in January 1978, the Indian government had demonetised 1,000, Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 notes to counter black money in the economy. But putting the fear of god into tax evaders did not curb the generation of black money. India is still one of the most cash intensive economies in the world with a cash-to-GDP ratio of 12%, almost four times as much as other markets such as Brazil (3.93%), Mexico (5.3%) and South Africa (3.73%), according to a report on 'Cost of Cash in India' commissioned by MasterCard.   Also Read: Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes banned: Your questions answered by RBI  Encouraging electronic payments is most welcome as the spin offs include automatic audit trails, transparent accounting and minimising the risk and cost of handling cash. But India is a vastly unbanked country. Many of the poor do not have bank accounts. To expect rural India to switch to the plastics in a short span is unrealistic.  What India really needs is systemic reforms to curb black money, given that the political system uses wads of cash to fund polls. The practice of political parties mopping up huge amount of poll funds through unaccounted contributions pushes businesses to generate black money. Civil servants get involved too making them corrupt. The only way to end this nexus is to make fund mobilisation and spending by political parties transparent.  PM Modi must usher reforms to make to make poll funding transparent.