Modi move good for tracking black money, logistically could be a pain: Keki Mistry, HDFC
In a chat with ET Now, Keki Mistry, VC & CEO, HDFC, says as long as there is accounted for money, people need to worry too much. Edited excerpts  What do you make of the Modi move today? It must have been in the works for a long while but with the RBI and the DEA Secretary in unison addressing the press conference shortly, what do you make of the move per se? Do you believe this is well thought out? Is there going to be kneejerk reaction?  Initially there might be some degree of uncertainty on how this is going to pan out but in one stroke, he has done a fantastic job in terms of clearing out all the black money in the system. Anyone who has got huge amounts of black money is in trouble. Even though there may be a mechanism for him or her to go to a bank account and get that money changed into legal tender. I do not think anyone with large amounts of black money is going to be happy and have the willingness or the guts to do that. It is a great thing, it is great for the economy. Logistically, how is it going to work? Very honestly I do not know.  Has demonetisations really worked wonders around the world? Do you believe India is going to be an exception perhaps because it was preceded by an income disclosure scheme to be followed by GST? Is there some kind of a semblance of sorts as far as the whole clean up of the Indian economy is concerned?  We had the disclosure scheme which ended in September. So anyone who had black money had the ability or the opportunity to declare that black money, pay his taxes and make it legal. If people have not done that, then obviously for them, there will be a problem because physical cash will now have no meaning or relevance. I think it is genuinely good for the economy. It is genuinely good for unearthing black money but as I said, logistically for the nex few days, there will be some degree of pain that some people they have to suffer in terms of convenience.  Is the blow to purchasing power going to impact purchasing power not just in the urban areas but more so in the rural areas and impact households?  For regular day to day living, I do not think people are going to get impacted in the medium term. May be in the next 2-4 days, there will be inconvenience but in the medium term, say in the next 8-10 day, there will be enough mechanisms put in place for someone who has got physical cash to go to a bank exchange that old Rs 500, 1000 notes from new notes so long as the money legal and has been properly accounted for how does it matter?  I must raise a counter point with you and I want your perspective on this. A lot of time, the unaccounted for wealth which they are really trying to crackdown on is not available in cash. People do not keep cash at home or cash in lockers or cash in banks, it is really in the pipeline. It is unaccounted for because it has been invested through unaccounted means. How do your crackdown on something like this?  Well a lot of this would actually be in the form of physical cash or in the form of gold because anything that is accounted for today’s digital world it is very difficult to carry out a cash transaction or to carry out an unaccounted transactions through the banking system. So a lot of this would indeed be in cash or in gold. Now with the amount that is lying in gold, I do not know what you can do about that but at least the cash part which is the easier part to handle has now been sort of tackled.  Are these hiccups in what is perhaps a age and a day in the lifecycle of a nation or do you believe these could seriously impact businesses and transactions being carried out?  I do not think it will impact businesses per se because businesses do not really transact in cash. It will impact day to day marketing perhaps because there you pay cash to buy your grocery and stuff like that. To that extent, there might be an impact. But I think these limits of whatever x amount of money that you mentioned you can withdraw from a ATM machine is probably done keeping in mind the fact that there may be some degree of immediate kneejerk reaction over the next two or three days which may lead to lots of people going to ATM machines or doing whatever so to keep some control on how much money can be withdrawn from these ATM machines or withdrawn from a bank these limits may have been imposed. I am sure that over the short to medium term, these limits will be relaxed, So as long as there is accounted for money, people need to worry too much.  What do you make about the Rs 2000 new notes that will be the new denomination? That will be issued by the RBI come February. So you believe that decision perhaps is going to awaited for a little while here because you are actually telling someone that there could be unaccounted for money that you have to declare or they will be complete cashless and then you say a bigger denomination is going to come in the next four months?  Yes, but a bigger denomination will be easier to track. The old Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes you could never have tracked. 