Demonetisation row: How money hoarders are trying to get rid of the Rs 500, Rs 1,000 notes
MUMBAI: A Vadodara real estate developer paying 100 employees, most of them labourers, six months’ salary in advance made news for his unexpected generosity.

 But what the developer, and many others like him have done is use an ingenious way to get rid of their black money following Tuesday’s demonetisation of the Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes.

 “The salary was paid to all those who work for me in advance. Every employee was even given 2% more than their salary for their efforts,” gloated the developer who told ET that he also hopes that his employees don’t run away with the money.

 About 500 kilometres away in Mumbai, a shopkeeper who owns two well-known sari showrooms in the central part of the city, convinced his 25 employees to deposit a total of Rs 40 lakh in their bank accounts in the next few days.






 “The employees, many of whom don’t even pay income tax, would deposit the money in their bank accounts. They would withdraw the money a month or two later and return it to the shopkeeper,” a middleman who facilitated the deal, said.

 However, for both the developer and the shopkeeper the problem persists. They need to “dispose” a couple of crores in the coming month or the money would lose all value. This has led to the mushrooming of “operators” or middlemen across India who are charging anywhere around 10% to 30% commission for converting high denomination notes to smaller ones.

 Another popular route to dispose of the illicit cash is buying gold. Jewellers or middlemen who sell gold are charging anywhere around Rs 40,000 for 10 grams when the market rate was Rs 30,500 on Wednesday. “Whenever someone gets black money he is not going to just store it in his house, he will invest it or spend it. The problem is for those who held that money at 9 pm on Tuesday,” said a Mumbai-based chartered accountant.

 According to people in the know, many hawala operators and real estate developers who hoarded their black money are now stuck with Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes. Most black money hoarders expected the government to de-monetise the Rs 1,000 note, but extending it to Rs 500 came as a shock.

 In some cases many of those who were left with the black money are turning to god, literally. Many people are going to the religious places and exchanging the Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes theu hold for Rs 100 notes. 
