Rs 500 & Rs 1,000 notes scrapped: Corporatised film industry unperturbed
MUMBAI: The government’s move to withdraw Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes from circulation will not hit the Indian film industry as it has stopped dealing in cash and is no more dependent on “questionable” sources for funding, top film makers said.  The film industry has often been looked down upon amid a general perception that producers, directors and stars either do not pay taxes or hide their actual income. Moreover, in the absence of organised funding in the past, a lot of producers were dependent on black or unaccounted money. But things started changing with the advent of the studio model, when multinationals came in and Bollywood got an industry status.  “It was in the 80s and 90s when producers had to rely on unaccountable money,” said Mukesh Bhatt, owner of Vishesh Films. “Since 2000, when we got an industry status, a lot has changed. Today, the film industry has got corporatized and has stopped dealing in cash.”  Apoorva Mehta, group CEO at Dharma Productions, said the government’s move will have no bearing on the film industry. “The move will not affect our business at all,” he told ET. “Today, producers either sell films to studios or they co-produce. All the payments are banking transactions – either wire transfers or cheques.”  He, however, raised concern that a cinemagoer who buys ticket in cash may get impacted for some time as he will have limited cash at his disposal. “The liquidity crunch may hit the screens temporarily,” Mehta said. “It’s a masterstroke and a very bold move that will empower our financial system.”  Adds Ajit Andhare, COO at Viacom18 Motion Pictures, “In the short run there will be some difficulty at the ticketing window with footfalls getting impacted in single screens due to sentiment to conserve cash. There will be a shift towards online bookings & use of cards at the multiplexes and single screens that have the infrastructure to accept cards.”  While this ‘surgical strike’ on black money will not affect the big film producers and studios, small time producers, who still don’t have direct access to the funds, may feel the pinch.  In the long run, Andhare adds, this is a welcome move by the PM as it will further bolster the organised film making sector that with corporatization few years ago has always been operating with 100% transactions through legitimate banking instruments. Those small and independent producers operating from questionable sources of funds will face difficult times.”  “For my last film, I had to take money from someone who I knew had nothing to do with the industry and had no business to have so much money, but I had explored all my options,” a film producer said on condition of anonymity. “Everyone wanted to be paid in cash. For me and other small producers like me, this move is going to be really bad.”