Rs 500, Rs 1,000 notes banned: Buying grocery tops common man’s immediate worries
MUMBAI: Mezhathur, a sleepy hamlet in north Kerala renowned for Ayurveda treatment, has no shops that accept bank cards. Grocers, vegetable sellers, pharmacists and even textiles shops deal only in cash.  “I don’t know what people will do over the next two days … None of these shopkeepers will accept Rs 500 notes now,” said S Devan, a resident of the village who is a retired bank employee.  While the move to ban Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denominations will hurt black money hoarders the most, it may cause inconvenience to the common man — even if only for a few days. For one, ATMs may not spit out money for the next two days. “The poor are going to get affected immediately,” said Arunima Sengupta, a clinical researcher residing in Kolkata.  “Most won’t even have the correct information till Wednesday … also, many people keep liquid cash with them as their banks are located in far away places. What will happen to them?”  The impact of this move could be even more severe in the hinterlands and for daily-wage labourers like Subramanian, in Kerala.  Also Read: Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes banned: Your questions answered by RBI  “I get Rs 700 after a day’s work in paddy fields … of this, one (currency note) is always Rs 500- note. I’ve some Rs 7,000 saved up in my home — mostly in Rs 500 denominations. Now, I’ll have to miss work to change these notes at the bank,” said Subramanian.  Subramanian is hopeful of changing his life-savings into lower denominations at the earliest; little does he know the co-operative bank he banks with may not have enough Rs 100 notes to meet the requirement of all the villagers.  “Most co-operative banks get their deposits in Rs 500 denominations...this is stored in the vaults of larger, stronger banks. We’re not sure if we’ll be able to dispense a lot of Rs 100 notes … We’ll have to transfer the money to their accounts if we’re not able pay in cash,” said K Abdu Rahman, member of a local co-operative bank in Kerala.  Sandeep Manian, a Mumbaibased travel agent, is also worried about the move to ban currency notes with large denominations.  Most of Manian’s walk-in ticketing business is done using hard cash. “We do not accept cheques because 90% of our customers are not known to us directly… If their cheques get dishonoured, we’ll suffer huge losses. So, we only accept cash payments,” Manian explained. Shopkeepers and wholesalers, operating in retail and FMCG sectors, may also face a lot of problems streamlining their payments.  Almost all retail players only accept cheques for payments above Rs 2 lakh. “Banning of larger denominations may play havoc with our collections cycle … most merchants pay us in cash every week. Now, we’re not sure how equipped they’re to give us cheques for smaller amounts, ” said Krishnakumar, a sales personnel employed with an FMCG behemoth.  Individuals who recently sold their property and are sitting on unaccounted cash are also fretting over the government’s move.  “I’ve just a little over Rs 1 lakh in cash with me now… I’ll have to ask a few friends take this money and deposit in their accounts to make it white,” said J. Mandhre, a resident of Mumbai, who refused to share his first name.  Also Read: Prime Minister Narendra Modi's full speech  There are some who feel the move may be cumbersome in the short run, but would be beneficial over a period of time.  “In the initial few days, there may be some delay with bank queues… I’ve a few thousands in cash… I hope the exchange process will be simple,” says Sohail Zaki, an employee with a Pune -based MNC. 