 [][][\nA Narikuravar family shows the 10 rupee coins given to them in exchange of old notes, outside the RBI office in Chennai on Tuesday. Photo: M. Prabhu\n\xa0 ][TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, along with leaders of the Shiv Sena, the Akali Dal, the AAP and the NC, marches to Rashtrapati Bhavan. , The BJP\u2019s ally, Shiv Sena, had responded positively to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee\u2019s proposed protest march to Rashtrapati Bhavan against demonetisation.
 Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, after convening a meeting of party parliamentarians on Tuesday, confirmed joining the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the protest in the 'larger public interest'. Earlier, the TMC chief had allegeldy called up Mr Thackeray requesting him to join a delegation of the opposition parties likely to meet the President on Wednesday. More...
 Updates of the day:, On the eve of the winter session of Parliament, the Congress today stepped up its attack on the government over demonetisation arguing that the move would have an \u201cadverse effect\u201d on the GDP due to \u201cfreezing\u201d of 86 per cent of banknotes in value terms. Seeking to expose the claims of the BJP-led dispensation on the issue of black money, the AICC wondered as to why Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not divulging the names of those holding black money as sought by the Supreme Court. \u201cWhere is black money? As far as black money is concerned, Modiji is yet to give the names to the Supreme Court,\u201d Congress spokesman Kapil Sibal told reporters.
 A small mark of indelible ink, used mostly during elections to prevent multiple voting, will be put on the right hand finger of those exchanging banned 500 and 1,000 rupee notes for new ones from tomorrow to prevent crowding at banks by repeat exchangers. \u201cIdeally, the ink mark should have been put on the left hand as is done when a person casts his vote. But with by\u2014elections due in some states, an ink mark for exchange or withdrawal of currency note on the left hand will lead to unnecessary difficulties. So it has been decided that the ink mark would be put on right hand,\u201d an official said.
 \n, In a sarcastic take on the emotional pitch of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the demonetisation, Shiv Sena today said his decision to scrap high value currency notes would not put his life in danger unlike his predecessors Indira and Rajiv Gandhi who were assasinated while fighting for greater goals of the country.
 A 78-year-old man, who had come to deposit cash at a state-run bank in Hyderabad died today after allegedly suffering a heart attack, police said. Laxman Rao, a retired government employee, came alone to the Marredpally branch to deposit Rs 1.5 lakh this morning and stood in the queue at the entrance of the bank, they said. \u201cHe collapsed on the bank\u2019s entrance steps and the policemen on duty immediately shifted him to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,\u201d Deputy Commissioner of Police (North Zone) B Sumathi said.
 AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi today claimed that the supplier of ink and silver threads used in currency notes is the same for India and Pakistan, and sought to know what was government\u2019s strategy to deal with it. \u201cThe ink and silver thread supplier is supplying the same thing to Pakistan as well. So, what is the government going to do about it ? (to end counterfeit menace),\u201d the Hyderabad Lok Sabha member asked. Maintaining that the demonetisation move has caused \u201cimmense problems to every one\u201d, Owaisi said the government should give ample time \u2014 at least a couple of months \u2014 for people to exchange old notes. He said if anyone deposits huge amount of money, it can certainly be tracked.
 \n, In a controversial remark, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav today said economists were of the opinion that black money helped the Indian economy in times of global recession. \u201cI am very clear on this...black money should not be generated. Economic experts say the magnitude of the global economic crisis at times is not felt in India because of strong (parallel) economy of black money,\u201d he said.
 \n, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the demonetisation scheme, terming it as a \u201cfraud\u201d aimed at benefiting a \u201cparticular political party,\u201d a veiled reference to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).
 Mr. Kejriwal tabled a resolution in the Delhi Assembly in this regard during its one-day emergency session. The resolution, which will be discussed in the AAP-dominated House, also urges President Pranab Mukherjee to direct the Centre to withdraw the measure.
 \n, After providing indelible ink to the Election Commission since 1962 to mark voters, the Mysore Paints and Varnish Limited has a new task at hand. It has been asked by the government to keep its stocks ready so that the indelible ink can be used by banks to mark customers exchanging defunct currency notes to check suspicious deposits.
 \n, Nepal Premier Prachanda called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought an arrangement so that Nepalese holding a huge stock of banned high denomination Indian bank notes could swap them with legal currency in the country.
 Hundreds of thousands of Nepalese, who earn a living by working as daily-wage labourers in India, visit the neighbouring country seeking medical treatment or rely on Indian markets to purchase daily essentials, are said to be holding big chunk of scrapped Indian bank notes, Kathmandu Post reported.
 \n, West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury on Tuesday ruled out any joint movement with "Saradha and Narada scam"-tainted TMC over the issue of demonetisation, as he asked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to stop her "drama of fighting against black money.", "We are also against black money. But we feel that there is a problem in the hasty procedure that has been adopted. Common people are suffering. Congress has opposed the decision and will protest against it. But in no way will the party in Bengal join hands with Saradha and Narada scam tainted TMC," he told reporters.
 The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to stay the government\u2019s notification demonetising Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency, but asked it to spell out the steps taken to minimise public inconvenience. \u201cWe will not be granting any stay,\u201d a Bench comprising Chief Justice T. S. Thakur and Justice D. Y. Chandrachud said. The remarks were made after some advocates insisted on a stay. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for one of the petitioners, however, said he was not asking for a stay on the notification but seeking answers from the government on the steps taken to remove public inconvenience.
 The Bench asked Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi to file an affidavit on the measures taken by the government and the RBI to minimise public inconvenience and also the steps likely to be undertaken in future. Without issuing any notice to the Centre or the RBI, the bench posted the matter for further hearing on November 25.
 \n, This is a desperate attempt to start a 'black mechanism' with indelible ink, shows this govt. does not trust the the common people, claims West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.
 Minister of Information &amp; Broadcasting Minister Venkaiah Naidu says the Prime Minister and the government firmly believe that country is made up of mostly honest people; but that the nation is suffering due to a dishonest minority.
 He adds, "To say that the govt. has informed some people in advance is an absurd allegation. There was no leak or advance intimation to anyone.", \n, LIVE: To say that Govt. has informed some people in advance is an absurd allegation;no leak or advance intimation whatsoever:@MVenkaiahNaidu https://t.co/ko2GgwMswW, \xa0, Even as the Opposition parties, including the Congress, Left, TMC, NCP and the JD(U), are formulating strategies for the coming winter session of Parliament to take on the government on the issue of demonetisation, Economic Affairs Secretary Shaktikanta Das, in a press meet on Tuesday, made a couple of announements to combat the crisis of cash crunch.
 Mr. Das said indelible ink would be used at banks to identify people who exchange notes. He also announced the formation of a special task force to monitor the infusion of fake currency in to the market, especially in the vulnerable areas of the country. He pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the supply of currency for the second time in two days on Monday night.
 Mr. Das urged places of worship, who receive smaller denomination notes, to deposit them in banks so supply of these notes increases.
 He warned people not to fall prey to rumours being spread through social media.'We have enough stock of salts and there is no reason for a temporary surge in price or shortage. Supply of essential commodities is being closely monitored. There are a lot of stories spreading through social media, like reports of certain institutions going on strike. There is no such thing, please don't believe such reports.'', \n, People were seen thronging ATMs and banks to withdraw money and exchange Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes. Many banks had remained closed on Monday on account of Guru Nanak Jayanti.
 The Congress and seven other Opposition parties met on Monday to formulate a joint strategy to put the government on the mat on the issue. After the meeting, Congress deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma said, \u201cThere is broad consensus that the demonetisation issue should be raised in Parliament.\u201d, On Monday, addressing a rally in eastern Uttar Pradesh\u2019s Ghazipur, Prime Minister Narendra Modi targeted his opponents for criticising his move. Mr. Modi asked people if he should be frightened by powerful forces hurt by his decision, even as he reiterated he would have to face the consequences.
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi\u2019s 97-year-old mother Heeraben on Tuesday visited a bank at her village in Gandhinagar, just like other citizens, and exchanged her old notes in view of the demonetisation of the high value currency notes.
 \n, Economic Affairs Secretary Shaktikanta Das says:, The government announces that it will begin using indelible ink at banks to make sure the same people don't go for multiple withdrawals. He says Mr. Modi reviewed the supply of currency for the second time in two days last night.
 A Special Task Force has been set up to monitor the infusion of fake currency in the market, especially in the vulnerable areas, he says.
 He also urges places of worship, who receive smaller denomination notes, to deposit them in banks so supply of these notes increases.
 Urging people to not fall for the rumours spread using social media, Mr. Das says we have enough stock of salts and there is no reason for a temporary surge in price or shortage. He adds that supply of essential commodities is being closely monitored.
 \n, Meanwhile, Mr. Modi's mother Heeraben Modi exchanges her defunct notes at a bank in Gandhinagar.
 \n, #WATCH PM Narendra Modi's mother Heeraben Modi exchanges currency of Rs 4500 at a bank in Gandhinagar (Gujarat) #DeMonetisation pic.twitter.com/QZXp32xC2o, Parliamentary floor leaders of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on Monday met in New Delhi, two days before the winter session is to commence, and passed a resolution expressing full confidence in the decision on demonetisation taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 \n\n, According to Information and Broadcasting Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu, who was present at the meeting, Prime Minister Modi assured the NDA leaders that "credit for the decision would not go to him personally but all parties standing firm with him.", CPI(M) polit bureau meet begins at party headquarters in Delhi; top leaders present. The Chief Ministers of Kerala and Tripura also present in the meet.
 \n\n, Financial investigation agencies have gathered prima facie evidence suggesting that a number of jewellers and foreign exchange operators in the country indulged in illicit conversion of demonetised Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes.
 The Customs Intelligence has zeroed in over 400 big jewellers in 25 cities on reports that soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the demonetisation, they showed a sharp jump in sales. In the black market, the gold price had gone up to Rs. 50,000 for 10 grams.
 In one case, a jeweller sold 201 kg of gold in just three days, leaving a minuscule balance in its coffers. His accounts are being scrutinised.
 \n, JD(U) leader Sharad Yadav gives notice for suspension of all listed business in the Rajya Sabha to discuss "unplanned demonetisation of Rs. 500/Rs. 1000 notes. Congress strategy meeting gets underway.\xa0, BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav tweets:, \n, Test of patriotism is in difficult times only. We see it abundantly these days. Otherwise everyone is an armchair-patriot in normal times, Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah tells Finance Minister Arun Jaitley: "Request you to direct the concerned to increase cash supply to the cooperative banking sector as per their requirement. Private hospitals, diagnostic labs, blood banks may also be included in the exempted list."][Please enter a valid email address.
 \nPrintable version | May 27, 2019 1:13:18 PM | https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/Uddhav-to-join-Mamata%E2%80%99s-protest-march/article16421167.ece\n, \n\xa9 THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD.\n]