
When Tamil Nadu shopped and ate out on Saturday, they had a first-hand experience of what the rollout of India’s biggest tax reform post Independence – the Goods and Services Tax (GST) – could do to their bills. “So what if it’s another tax? It’s something we have to live with. So better to check it out,” observed S. Jeyanthi, a housewife who made her first purchase at 6.30 a.m. and clicked a picture of the bill to post it on social media. Across the State, on Day 1 of the GST, there was still lack of clarity. Some traders downed shutters, while some took help from accountants and experts on how to keep their businesses running. Many traders still issued hand-written bills.In Chennai, many retail outlets downed shutters saying they still had not migrated to the new billing system and their computers needed an upgrade. At Heritage Fresh on Thanikachalam Road, Thyagaraya Nagar, all products were available on the shelves but only bread, milk and few basic items were sold. A salesperson there said: “We are selling only a few items like milk and bread. The other products will be made available only starting July 2. Some systems are being upgraded.” Kishore Biyani’s Big Bazaar lured consumers by offering ₹300 cash-back on purchase of products worth ₹1,000. However, for Saravana Stores in Chennai’s shopping hub Thyagaraya Nagar, it was business as usual, with thousands of shoppers queuing up. The neighbourhood kirana shops too carried on with their business, giving out hand-written bills. In Madurai, some wholesalers stopped selling; those who did said bills would be issued on Monday (July 3). B. Balasubramanian, a grocery retailer in East Masi Street in Madurai, said business was slightly dullwhen GST came into force since a number of wholesalers had not upgraded their billing systems. There was also some confusion on the tax rate for certain products. Mr. Balasubramanian, who is yet to upgrade his system, was also issuing hand-written bills on Saturday.People eating out were the worst-hit. Seventy two-year-old Padma Lakshmi, a house-wife, said, “My breakfast bill was ₹75, for which, after tax, I paid ₹89. For a middle-class senior citizen like me, every penny counts and shelling out ₹14 extra is quite a burden,” she lamented. In the temple town of Tiruchi, a section of hoteliers did not change the billing system. Gafoor, who runs an air-conditioned restaurant on Bharathidasan Road, said, “People would not mind paying tax if it is moderate. The current rate is huge.”Many techies working for IT firms in Tidel Park and the OMR stretch in Chennai said that food price was the major challenge for them. Arun Prasad, who works for an IT firm on the OMR belt, said, “Most techies are from other districts and we eat out most of the time. This new tax of 18% is going to burn a hole in our pockets.”Mathew Thomas, another techie from Chennai, said, “Good Sight Tax – the government has ensured that we look at bills more closely going forward. God Sent Tax for lawyers and chartered accountants and a Grand Sale Tax for shops.”On Saturday, traders continued to offer discounts and were clearing their stocks. Jewellers also kept their doors open until late at night on Friday so that consumers could purchase gold before GST was rolled out. A 3% tax has been levied on gold and diamond jewellery.S. Mahalakshmi from Chennai said, “I was trying to buy a two-wheeler pre-GST. The dealer said that there is no stock of the model that I was looking for. He mentioned that even if I had booked pre-GST but get it delivered after July 1, I should pay the post-GST rate..”In Coimbatore, cloth merchants saw a sharp decline in footfall at their outlets. P. Durairaj of the Coimbatore Cloth Merchants Association said it could take a month for business to improve. “Every one is confused about how the manufacturers would bill the products, the input credit that would be available, and the impact on the price of the end-product,” he said.(With inputs from C. Jaisankar in Tiruchi, Pon Vasanth Arunachalam in Madurai and M. Soundariya Preetha in Coimbatore)
