How Tamil Nadu government helped Chennai pick up the pieces after Cyclone Vardah wreaked havoc
By Sandhya Ravishankar  Chennaiites who are 22 years old or younger had never seen a monster like this. Cyclone Vardah, the first such storm to hit Chennai, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur after over two decades, swept through the city at 130 km per hour, taking down power infrastructure, mobile towers, trees and even rooftop tanks and sheds. December 12, 2016 should have been another catastrophic event, going by the Tamil Nadu government’s response to the deluge of December 2015. But it was not to be. The state administration had gone into high gear, preparing itself to deal with another freak rainfall event and flooding. And that is what saved Chennai when Vardah hit.  A Late Beginning The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government swept back into power in May 2016, despite facing severe flak for its poor handling of floods that inundated large parts of Chennai, Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur and Cuddalore, in December 2015. But a government in stasis did not begin efforts to mitigate and prevent a similar disaster until September. In September, two months before the Northeast monsoon was to arrive, a flurry of activity began within the government. Mapping and classification of areas which were vulnerable to flooding began. The first and most onerous task was to collect data — and time was not a friend. “One significant difference from last year was that we analysed vulnerable areas and classified them into Very High Vulnerability, High Vulnerability, Moderate Vulnerability and Low Vulnerability,” said K Satyagopal, commissioner of revenue administration for the state, in-charge of prevention and relief measures during natural disasters.    Areas which had over five feet of water in December 2015, like Tambaram and Mudichur near Chennai, were mapped under Highly Vulnerable. Evacuation routes and places to set up relief centres were then identified. Based on the data available from the freak weather event of December 2015, a Vulnerability Analysis was then done. “The source of vulnerability, which could be a nearby river or a lake, the cause of vulnerability, rainfall data in the days preceding the event, how many relief centres were set up, how many people were accommodated in the relief centre — all of this data was collected and collated thoroughly,” said Satyagopal.  Data collection was a massive exercise with district and state administration chipping in. The next step was to analyse how to prevent flooding — temporary, permanent and long term prevention measures were flagged off. “For instance, a temporary measure could be to put sandbags around a lake in danger of breaching. Permanent measure would be to build a wall. A long-term prevention measure could be to remove encroachments on the lake and restore it to original capacity,” he explained.  Alongside this effort began a massive desilting exercise — lakes, tanks and inlet and outlet channels of water bodies had to be cleared, with a priority focus on the Highly Vulnerable and Vulnerable areas. 22,899 tanks and supply channels were desilted starting September. 11,446 km of river course too was cleared. 16,000 bridges and 1.45 lakh culverts in these areas were cleared of encroachments for up to 500 m upstream and 500 m downstream, to prevent overflowing. “We had a major breakthrough when we actively involved the community in our efforts,” said Satyagopal. “We identified 1,149 teams of First Responders — basically these are local residents who know swimming and climbing. They were trained by the Red Cross and NGOs on rescue and evacuation methods. We have about 10 such people in a team — a total of 11,475 people across the state, ready to respond instantly in case of extreme weather events,” he said.    On September 21, a day before late CM J Jayalalithaa was hospitalised, chief secretary of Tamil Nadu P Rama Mohana Rao held a meeting with secretaries of various departments. A plan was outlined and a complex hierarchy of inter-departmental teams was put in place to ensure quick response in the event of floods. The First Responders would alert an Inter-Zonal team (total of 498 teams), a 10-12 member team comprising of district officials in the revenue, police and fisheries departments, in the case of incessant overnight rains. These Inter-Zonal teams would report to nodal officers — of the rank of sub-collector or collector. Monitoring officers were set up by the state government for each vulnerable area. In Chennai alone, 15 such senior officers were put in charge — one for each zone of the densely populated city. One principal secretary level officer was put in charge of Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur districts along with 4-5 officers to help the district administration. One IG-level officer was also put in charge for co-ordinating with police teams.   (In pic: An old couple try to navigate through a fallen tree to get to the other side)  At the September 21 meeting, the armed forces too were called in. An alert was issued to them and orders were issued to all districts and departmental heads to ensure that gaps in the plan were rectified immediately. “For example, we had issued advisories to all hospitals saying that they had to be ready with generators and oxygen for at least 48 hours,” said Satyagopal. “We also told them to increase the height at which their generators were placed so that flood waters would not get them.” 1,275 police personnel were also handpicked and trained in October and November in rescue and evacuation operations. Snake catchers, fishermen, boat drivers were all identified and boats pre-positioned at strategic points. A separate set of search and rescue committees were formed, numbering 581 in all.   (In pic: Many signages and boards were ripped off and destroyed)  In October, officials met with oil companies and asked them to ensure enough supply of petrol and diesel in the event of floods. Three rounds of discussions were held with mobile operators to ensure that they had power back-up. And then the state government waited. But the rains did not come.  Speedy Restoration Post Cyclone Instead of the rains came a monster cyclone — Vardah, Urdu for ‘rose’. Damages to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore were caused to public infrastructure, and Chief Minister O Panneerselvam wrote to the Prime Minister asking for funds. By December 11 itself though, the state administration, geared for floods, was on high alert for Vardah. Advisories were issued to residents of vulnerable areas and by the night of December 11, over 13,000 people were evacuated from the coast as well as low lying areas by officials of the Chennai Corporation, revenue department and Police. Six ministers were put in charge of each district and regular review meetings were held in order to aid coordination between different departments.   (In pic: Tamil Nadu CM Panneerselvam reviews relief efforts at the Chennai City Corporation)  The CM conducted reviews twice a day from December 11, even visiting relief camps and affected areas once Vardah moved away from the state on December 12. On the morning of December 12, six teams of the National Disaster Rescue Force (NDRF) were positioned across three districts — two each in Chennai, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur. One team consists of 40 NDRF personnel. An extra team was requisitioned by 3 pm in Kanchipuram. The Army, Air Force and the Navy was put on high alert for rescue operations.  As Vardah made landfall between 1 pm and 3 pm, Chennai witnessed an eerie calm. The howling wind dropped and trees stood still. During this two-hour window, teams across the three districts went to work. Police, State Disaster Rescue Force (SDRF), NDRF, Chennai Corporation officials, TANGEDCO (Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation) officials and others went into high gear clearing fallen trees using power saws, JCBs and trucks.  “The first priority for us in terms of clearing trees was the arterial roads,” said V Balakrishnan, deputy commissioner of police, Mylapore. “We then moved to the connecting roads and then to the streets and bylanes,” he said.    The police too had prepared themselves for floods — contact numbers of JCB operators were kept handy, every police station was told to organise a generator for clearing trees at night and a control room at the office of the Commissioner of Police helped guide teams to areas that needed urgent attention. “We were able to mobilise our entire manpower and prepare them mentally to face a similar situation like last year. Our experience of the floods helped in arranging shelters and communicating with people to move them to safer areas,” said Balakrishnan. Across districts, police personnel were seen chipping in, literally, hacking away at branches of fallen trees in order to clear roads.  Powering Up Promptly Power infrastructure took the worst beating — the debt-ridden power utility TANGEDCO, is staring at losses of Rs 1,000 crore due to damage to equipment as well as loss of revenues.  Within 24 hours of the cyclone though, most of Chennai’s homes had power. The reason — anticipating floods, TANGEDCO had brought in manpower and equipment from neighbouring districts and kept them ready. 1,800 TANGEDCO staffers arrived on the afternoon of December 11 — the day before the cyclone was to hit Chennai — from districts like Erode, Neyveli, Coimbatore and Tuticorin. This was in addition to the existing strength of 2,000 in Chennai. Another 2,000 arrived from Virudhunagar on December 13 to help speedy repair and restoration work. A stock of 4,000 electric poles was moved from Cuddalore district. Arrangements were made to keep 800 transformers ready for replacement. TANGEDCO chairman Sai Kumar also roped in the Power Grid Corporation — their Emergency Restoration System vans were positioned near Sriperumbudur since December 2015. These vans came in handy to swiftly repair 24 Extra High Tension towers in Kadaperi, Tondiarpet and Padappai, which got twisted by the storm.  Officials were armed with walkie-talkies which helped them communicate even when mobile networks went down. “Due to the 250 walkie-talkies that we had organised beforehand, we were able to communicate even when cell phone networks got cut,” said Sai Kumar. “We restored power to all government hospitals except Omandurar by the night of December 12 itself,” he added. Executive engineers of TANGEDCO moved with corporation officials of the NDRF — the latter would saw through fallen trees and the power utility officers would then move in to fix the damaged equipment.  Gaps In Communication Perhaps the only major problem that the state administration grappled with was the loss of mobile connectivity post Vardah. Police and TANGEDCO officials were able to communicate to some extent due to the walkie-talkie network. But officials of other departments were forced to fly blind. Even four days after the cyclone, mobile networks are yet to be fully restored in Chennai. “Mobile operators were given advisories in October itself to have power backups,” said Satyagopal.  (The writer is an independent Chennai-based journalist with The Lede)  DISCLAIMER : Views expressed above are the author's own.