
Manushi Chhillar ends India’s 17-year long wait, wins Miss World 2017		
Ending India's 17-year long wait, Manushi Chhillar was crowned Miss World 2017 in a glittering event on November 18. Competing against 108 contestants from various countries held at Sanya City Arena, she clinched the title after Priyanka Chopra was last crowned in 2000. Miss World 2016 winner Puerto Rico's Stephanie Del Valle gave away the coveted crown to the winner. Chhillar, who is from Haryana, had earlier won the Femina Miss India 2017 on June 25 . India, England, France, Kenya and Mexico grabbed the top five spots at the pageant. Stephanie Hill, who is Miss England was the first runner up and Miss Mexico Andrea Meza was second runner up. Catch the glimpse of her winning moment in a 4.51-minute clip that surfaced on social media . Watch the video here .   Born to doctor parents, she studied at St Thomas School in New Delhi and Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College for Women in Sonepat. Her entire family including brother and sister were present and they were delighted and excited to see her grabbing the top five spots . In the question and answer round post getting the top five spot, Manushi was asked:   Which profession deserves the highest salary and why?   She replied:   I think a mother is of the highest respect. I don't think its just about cash but the love and respect she gives to someone. She is the biggest inspiration in my life. Mothers should get the highest respect.   Watch what she said in the Q&amp;A round here .   Ahead of the competition, she told PTI,   Though I was a medical student, I never had a plan B. I don't want to regret anything in life, so it was really important for me to win this competition. My aim has always been to win the Miss World title.   While many other beauty queen such as Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Sushmita Sen, Priyanka Chopra and Lara Dutta joined the Bollywood bandwagon after their win, Chhillar seems to have a different plan. When asked if she would like to join the carve a career in Bollywood later in life, she said,   I disagree with the notion. I feel that Miss India is a stepping stone for anything you want to do, not just Bollywood.    Sacrificing one year of her education to participate in the Miss India competition, the medical student said she grew up idolising Reita Faria, the first Indian and Asian to win the Miss World crown in 1966 . The model was also named one of the five winners of the Beauty with a Purpose award at Miss World 2017 and the Head to Head challenge. The 20-year-old is passionate about paragliding, bungee jumping, snorkelling and scuba diving. She is also a trained Indian classical dancer and enjoys sketching and painting in her free time. Her motto in life is \u2018When you cease to dream you cease to live.', Catch a glimpse of all the pictures from the pageant here: Manushi Chhillar wins Miss World 2017 title, ending 17 years of drought for India