The problem with Padmavati lies in Ranveer Singh as Alauddin Khilji
Padmavati is riveting. Not the film, but the drama around it. With such fight scenes, strong language and occasional comic relief as free promotion, Sanjay Leela Bhansali may not need to spend on publicity. Rajasthan distributors have already said no to exhibiting his medieval drama after the Rajput community went medieval on him. Elsewhere, politicians have jumped in.So much so that Padmavati has united Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress politicians in Gujarat where both these parties have demanded editing the film in a way that doesn't hurt sentiments of the Rajputs. Rajputs, famous for their bravery, are claiming their sentiments are hurt just at the thought of the Alauddin Khilji character having thoughts about Maharani Padmini .The filmmakers have clarified that there's no such thought sequence. The trailer came out. It was less about Khilji and more about Rajput bravery, sacrifice and justice. That however hasn't assuaged the assumed, in this case presumed, hurt sentiments.So what's wrong with Padmavati? Looking at all the evidence, we can safely conclude that it's the choice of actor who plays Alauddin Khilji: the brilliantly maverick storehouse of energy, Ranveer Singh.You see Ranveer Singh is not a usual villain choice. He is not Shakti Kapoor, Raza Murad, Amrish Puri, Prakash Raj, Ashish Vidyarthi or Ashutosh Rana, who people have accepted as villains. We are a society that takes cinema seriously. Ranveer Singh is hero material. He is a star.The fear is that Ranveer Singh, by virtue of playing Khilji, will make Khilji likeable. That it won't be black and white like typical Bollywood film characters are. Ranveer Singh will make this all grey. And Rajputs simply cannot take that.Khilji was not a barbarian as shown in the trailer, some say. Well, he may have been a sophisticated, cultured Shahanshah but history written by his contemporaries also shows him to be an extremely cruel religious nutcase, who got people slaughtered in thousands and did not spare even women and children, something even the cruellest of them avoided.Rajputs believe any attempt to humanise him will insult the thousands of not just Rajputs who were killed only because they did not accept the marauder Khilji's suzerainty. But is that the only reason?Well, it is one of the reasons. The other is clearly the competitive hurt sentiments game. Do we even need to list the names of films that got into trouble because it cast poor light on a caste or community? This is just to assert identity and control creative licence.Since successive governments and the oppositions have participated in this game with equal zeal in the past, Rajputs are confident a compromise will be reached. It will be a few minor cuts. And a warning to Bollywood: Keep off history. Because our histories are different.ALSO WATCH:  Sanjay Leela Bhansali thrashed on Padmavati sets for allegedly distorting history