Padmavati movie controversy: UP protesters declare Rs 50 lakh bounty on Sanjay Bhansali and Deepika Padukone

Live Padmavati movie controversy: The row has stepped up as Karni Sena has once again launched a threat, this time against Deepika Padukone. Padmavati movie issue is growing each day. The controversy started off since some political parties were of the opinion that history related to Rani Padmavati was being distorted.
padmavati row live, padmavati row live updates, padmavati row, padmavati controversy live, padmavati controversy live updates, deepika padukone, karni sena, Sanjay leela bhansali, padmavati controversy, ranveer singh, rani padmvati, who is padmavati, what is padmavati controversy, padmavati Aladdin khilji storyLive Padmavati movie controversy: The controversy took an ugly turn after leader of the Shri Rajput Karni Sena cited Ramayana?s Surpanakha nose-chopping incident and warned Deepika Padukone against ?inciting? sentiments.

Live Padmavati movie controversy: The Padmavati row has stepped up once again as after the threat of Karni Sena, protesters from Uttar pradesh’s Sambhal has declared a bounty of Rs 50 lakh on Padmavati director Sanjay Leela Bhansali and actress Deepika Padukone who has portrayed the character of Queen Padmavati in the film. Padmavati movie issue is growing each day. The controversy started off since some political parties were of the opinion that history related to Rani Padmavati was being distorted. The cloud on Padmavati’s release looms large as Karni Sena is in no mood to tone down their agitation against the film citing that Sanjay Leela Bhansali has distorted historical facts. The controversy took an ugly turn after leader of the Shri Rajput Karni Sena cited Ramayana’s Surpanakha nose-chopping incident and warned  Deepika Padukone against “inciting” sentiments. Earlier, referring to the nose chopping of ‘Surupnakha’ in the epic Ramayana, Karni Sena leader Mahipal Singh Makrana said that while Kshatriyas respected women, but if the film was not banned and Padukone does not stop inciting sentiments with her provocative language, the Rajputs will not lag behind in acting. Meanwhile, protests were held in several parts of the country, including Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, against the movie, which is slated to be released on December 1. Earlier a theatre in Kota was vandalised over the row. Padukone had reportedly said that nothing could stop the release of the film and that India had regressed as a nation. This statement had incited anger amongst the people who tried to convey a message to the actress to stop making provocative statements.


