Irom Sharmila Ends Fast: Manipur’s Iron Lady can bring about a positive change through politics
In a major landmark for Manipur, Irom Sharmila broke her 16-year-old fast against the draconian Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) to begin a new life. It will be recalled that Sharmila was being force fed at a prison hospital for the better part of the last one and a half decade. Today, in a symbolic and incredibly emotional gesture, she burst into tears as she licked honey from her palm to end her fast.
Her decision has surprised a section of her supporters – AFSPA continues to be an everyday reality in Manipur. Nonetheless, it needs to be seen in a pragmatic light. Sharmila’s fast of 16 years did a lot to highlight the draconian aspects of AFSPA. It garnered worldwide attention on the issue and created a huge constituency for AFSPA’s repeal. However, Sharmila’s gargantuan sacrifice couldn’t move the government of India. In fact, it’s doubtful that New Delhi would have changed its position on AFSPA in future had she continued with her fast.
In such a scenario, it’s wise of Sharmila to end her fast and officially declare her intention to join politics. Given her massive following, there’s little doubt that she will see quick success in the electoral process. Elections in Manipur are slated for next year and those polls are what Sharmila is targeting to make her political debut. In the context of Manipur, if there is someone who can bring about a positive change through politics then it has to be Sharmila. After all, she is Manipur’s Iron Lady.
What needs to be noted here is that things have changed considerably in the Northeast in the last 15 years. Insurgency has come down significantly with most of the major rebel outfits engaging the government in peace negotiations. True, some rebel groups still haven’t joined the talks process. However, support for them has dwindled considerably. As a result, today a situation exists where the Northeast is ready to move on but an atmosphere of trust needs to be created between the people, the rebels, and the government of India.

It’s in this respect that Sharmila is uniquely placed to change Manipur’s fate. For 16 years she has campaigned against AFSPA, she has full support of the Manipuri people and now she is ready to join the mainstream political process. This gives her all the right credentials to bring together all Manipuri stakeholders and negotiate with New Delhi on the basis of equality.
Taken together, Sharmila has certainly made the right call in ending her long fast. We should wish her all the very best for the next chapter of her life.
