WASHINGTON — With just hours left in his presidency, Barack Obama toasted about 30 of his closest advisers in the private second-floor residence of the White House — one final chance for a departing president to say goodbye. Champagne flute in hand, Mr. Obama offered a rare peek at his family’s quarters on Thursday night, by then already stripped of personal artwork that had hung for years. Mr. Obama showed off the Gettysburg Address and a bust of Winston Churchill, and the group lingered until about 11 p.m. on the Truman Balcony, overlooking the National Mall where thousands would gather the next morning for Donald J. Trump’s inauguration. Those who celebrated then with Mr. Obama — and gathered again on Friday with about 2,000 political appointees at Joint Base Andrews — were the truest of the believers during eight years in which hope was repeatedly tested and change often proved difficult. “For all of you who have just done amazing, remarkable work, most of it unheralded, most of it without fanfare, most of it without you getting any word of thanks, we could not be prouder of you,” Mr. Obama said before leaving for a family vacation in Palm Springs, Calif. The tears flowed freely Friday as the former president’s aides waved and cheered, almost as if doing so might somehow prolong a historic moment in the nation’s capital — and prevent the arrival of another. Few of them wanted to make the 25-minute drive back to Mr. Trump’s Washington anytime soon. But as the jet roared down the runway for takeoff, it became clear that the Obama era in America had passed, and with it an approach to public life that is unlikely to be repeated soon. “They went out the way they came in,” said Cody Keenan, Mr. Obama’s chief speechwriter, who attended the going-away at Andrews. “It was graceful and dignified and generous and warm to everyone who worked for them.” Not everyone shares the sorrow of the people who gathered at Andrews. Many of those wearing bright red “Make America Great Again” hats as they arrived in Washington for Mr. Trump’s inaugural were all too happy to see Mr. Obama go. Many viewed the 44th president as self-important, inexperienced and far too Hollywood for their tastes. To his rivals and critics, the eight years of Obama brought I.R.S. scandals, Benghazi, Hillary Clinton’s home-brew email, too much focus on gays and immigrants, too few jobs, and a world suddenly on fire. But members of both political parties in Washington are likely to agree that the city will be a different place without the Obamas living in the White House. When the family entered their new home in 2009, they brought with them two precocious young girls, a bouncing puppy, modern art and a new swing set on the South Lawn. Michelle Obama dug a vegetable garden and sponsored a farmer’s market a few blocks from the White House. Those early days were a blur, as Mr. Obama and the Democratic-controlled Congress confronted global economic collapse. From the Oval Office, the president and his hard-charging staff pushed through a spending bill, an auto bailout, and a health care overhaul that would become a political albatross for years. In the years that followed, America got used to Mr. Obama’s long speeches, dazzling state dinners, endless weekends at the golf course and the occasional surprise walk outside the White House gates, a moment that frustrated aides described with the phrase “the bear is loose.” Gridlock also followed in the nation’s capital. Never one to cultivate close relationships with lawmakers, Mr. Obama found his legislative agenda largely stymied after 2010, when Republicans took control of the House of Representatives. Frustrated, Mr. Obama used the power of his office to push through his agenda. Much of that agenda is now at risk. As the helicopter carrying Mr. Obama from the Capitol lifted off after Mr. Trump’s inauguration, the new president was already signaling his intention to use those same executive powers to reverse what his predecessor had done. First, though, came the traditional tea on Friday morning among Mr. Obama, Mr. Trump and their wives at the White House. Then the two men rode together in the armored presidential limousine for the brief trip to the Capitol for Mr. Trump’s swearing-in and speech. As the handoff of power approached, Mr. Obama’s supporters took to Twitter to recall his years in the White House, adding #ThankYouObamas to their remembrances. The hashtag quickly became a top trend across the nation. In a series of his own Twitter messages on Friday morning, Mr. Obama said goodbye publicly and directed followers to a video message seeking suggestions for building a foundation to create what he called a “living, working center for citizenship.” Mr. Obama left a private note for Mr. Trump, continuing a tradition that past presidents have followed for decades. He also left a public note for the American people on his Facebook page. “When the arc of progress seems slow, remember: America is not the project of any one person,” Mr. Obama wrote, a thinly veiled reference to his successor. “The single most powerful word in our democracy is the word ‘We.’ ‘We the People.’ ‘We shall overcome.’” He ended the note as he began his campaign, with three words: “Yes, we can.” 