“Hail to the Chief” is perhaps one of the most recognizable musical pieces associated with the United States presidency. The stately song has been played at events attended by presidents for more than a century. It made an appearance again on Friday, when the United States Marine Band played at the inauguration in Washington, signifying the transfer of power from President Obama to Donald J. Trump. Here’s a brief history of the tune, including the time one president shunned it. The inaugural ceremony The Marine Band, established in 1798 to provide ceremonial music for the president, started playing “Hail to the Chief” in the 19th century. It has been used most commonly to announce the arrival of American leaders, like when they enter a room for a ceremonial dinner. It has also been played to introduce a new commander in chief. On Friday, 86 musicians from the band gathered on the bandstand below a platform on the West Front lawn of the Capitol. They played “Hail to the Chief” after Mr. Trump took the oath and became the nation’s 45th president. “There is something wonderfully symbolic” about the order, the band’s director, Lt. Col. Jason K. Fettig, said in an interview. “One is for the final time, and one is for the first time for these two gentlemen. It is solidifying the idea that we are transferring power from one president to another.” A few measures of traditional drum- and brass-based fanfare — called “Ruffles and Flourishes” — precede “Hail to the Chief”, which is about 45 seconds long and incorporates brass and woodwinds with the band’s other instruments. “It is a simple American tune that has a rustic quality to it,” Colonel Fettig said. “It is not a very complicated march — you can whistle and sing it.” The Marine Band’s treatment is solely instrumental, but there are several renditions with lyrics, including the one used by a production by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. A tradition from the 19th century A version of “Hail to the Chief” was written by an English theater songwriter, James Sanderson, based on an adaptation of Sir Walter Scott’s poem “The Lady of the Lake” and featured in theatrical productions performed in the United States starting in 1812. As the song became popular, it was gradually incorporated into presidential events. The popularity of the music inspired the Marine Band to play it from a barge at the opening of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal in 1828, which President John Quincy Adams (1825-1829) attended. But the first time it was documented as being presented to honor a living American president was in 1829, when the Marine Band played it as President Andrew Jackson (1829-1837) climbed into his carriage after a ceremony to lay the cornerstone to build a canal lock, said a Marine Band historian, Gunnery Sgt. Kira Wharton. The first time the song was played at an inaugural event for a president was in 1837, for Martin Van Buren (1837-1841), and it has been associated with the event ever since, she said. In 1954, the Defense Department established “Hail to the Chief” as the official musical tribute to the president. “This is officially the president’s music,” Colonel Fettig said. “We advocate people not to play it for anyone else.” Its cultural history in the White House Two first ladies had a say about how the musical piece was used. Julia Gardiner Tyler, the second wife of President John Tyler (1841-1845), specifically asked for “Hail to the Chief” to be played to announce her husband’s arrival at events. Sarah Childress Polk also demanded that it be played to let people know when her husband, James K. Polk (1845-1849), who was a “man of small stature,” entered a room, so as to avoid embarrassment if he went unnoticed, according to historical texts published by the Library of Congress. The musical piece has not always been used consistently. During the presidency of Chester A. Arthur (1881-1885), the march fell out of favor. The leader of the Marine Band then, John Philip Sousa, was given the green light by Arthur to write another piece of music to replace it, Sergeant Wharton said, citing historical texts. Sousa produced “Presidential Polonaise.” Sergeant Wharton said, “It replaced it for a short time, but never really took on.” One American leader, however, was not too keen on the song. President Jimmy Carter (1977-1981) temporarily shunned “Hail to the Chief.” Mr. Carter, a son of the South who carried his own luggage and enrolled his daughter in public school, according to the Jimmy Carter Library website, dismissed the song as too much pageantry Mr. Carter, who prided himself on his Washington-outsider status, wrote in his memoirs that he had received complaints saying that perhaps he went too far in cutting the pomp and circumstance, and he eventually reconsidered: “So after a few months, I authorized the band to play ‘Hail to the Chief’ on special occasions.” The song, long associated with a living American leader, has even been played at funerals, including that of an assassinated president, John F. Kennedy, (1961-1963), as his widow, Jacqueline Kennedy, wept. 