Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • The toll is only beginning to emerge from Hurricane Harvey, which tore across the U.S. Gulf Coast and, even as a lesser tropical storm, is expected to pound the region with torrential rains and catastrophic flooding for days. “It’s bad now and it’s getting worse,” a weather official said. Here’s video and a map of the storm’s path. The National Weather Service called it “unknown and beyond anything experienced.” Rescuers made more than 1,000 high-water runs and asked the public to offer boats. One of our own correspondents is trapped with his family in their flooded home. The Times has lifted its paywall for storm coverage. Check here for the latest. _____ • Thai officials are seeking to pin down the whereabouts of former Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. She appears to be have followed the path of her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, into self-imposed exile, having failed to show up Friday to face a possible 10-year prison sentence on criminal charges of negligence and claims that she had cost the country billions of dollars. Above, her supporters vainly waiting for her at court. _____ • In South Korea, lawyers for Lee Jae-yong, the third-generation heir to the Samsung empire, are pursuing an appeal for his five-year prison sentence for bribery involving the former president. But analysts say he still has controlling power and note that some of the country’s other business empires have been run from jail cells. _____ • President Trump is pursuing a $2.5 billion overhaul of U.S. nuclear weapons, leading to new fears of a nuclear arms race. But his secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, said the U.S. would continue to seek a peaceful resolution to the North Korean nuclear standoff, despite the North’s launch of three ballistic missiles. Mr. Tillerson became the latest top official to distance himself from the president’s comments blaming “both sides” in recent racially charged violence in Virginia. When asked in a Fox News interview whether Mr. Trump’s response represented “American values,” he said, “The president speaks for himself.” _____ • President Trump was fully engaged with hurricane response, which drowned out some of the upset over a series of decisions as the storm was bearing down. That included pardoning Joe Arpaio, the former Arizona sheriff who built a national reputation for his harsh campaign against undocumented immigrants, and issuing a formal ban on transgender people joining the military. Mr. Trump had asked top aides months ago whether the case against Mr. Arpaio could be dropped. Among the critics of the pardon: House Speaker Paul Ryan. _____ • Last week, Times reporters explained how the killing of a Filipino teenager, Kian Loyd delos Santos, had emerged as a rallying point for critics of President Rodrigo Duterte’s brutal war on drugs. On Saturday, students joined nuns, activists and even supporters of Mr. Duterte as an estimated 5,000 people poured out of their homes to join a march for Mr. delos Santos. “The call for justice has begun,” a political strategist said. • And the winner is: Uber chose Dara Khosrowshahi, above, of the online travel company Expedia as its new chief executive, ending a contentious search as the ride-hailing company tries to move past a turbulent period. • CBS has agreed to buy the Australian TV broadcaster Ten Network, which was on the verge of collapse amid falling advertising revenue. • In Dubai, migrant workers at a Trump golf course complain that their modest paychecks from a local construction company are often weeks or months late. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Intensifying clashes between security forces and Rohingya insurgents in western Myanmar sent terrified civilians fleeing toward the Bangladesh border. [The New York Times] • The Indian authorities fear more bloodshed when the leader of the Dera Sacha Sauda sect is sentenced for raping two disciples. At least 36 people died in riots on Friday. [BBC] • Hezbollah has evolved from a Lebanese militant group into the spearhead of an international militia network led by Tehran. [The New York Times] • China’s investments in Greece are beginning to pay off, both economically and by providing Beijing with a seemingly reliable ally in Brussels. [The New York Times] • More than 700 people are expected to testify about bad credit decisions by Vietnam’s Ocean Bank in a 20-day trial of 51 defendants set to begin today. [Vietnamnet] • Scotland Yard arrested a second man in connection with the case of a man accused of wielding a four-foot sword near Buckingham Palace. [Associated Press] • “I think we gave the fans what they wanted to see.” Floyd Mayweather Jr. was in an expansive mood after stopping Conor McGregor in the 10th round of a much-hyped megafight in Las Vegas. Mayweather will collect more than $200 million, and McGregor possibly more than $100 million. [The New York Times] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Learn to run with a jogging stroller. • What you’re really saying with that vacation auto-reply, the art of unplugging and more, in our latest Smarter Living newsletter. • Recipe of the day: Make roast chicken the way the master, Jacques Pépin, does. • Yokosuka, the home port of the U.S. Navy’s Seventh Fleet, is a little slice of Americana in Japan. It’s tense now, our Tokyo bureau chief reports, as thousands of sailors, other military personnel and civilians in support capacities grapple with two major accidents and standby status on North Korea. • Singapore’s language scene was “a linguistic tropical rain forest” until the campaign to make English and Mandarin dominant. Now, dialects like Hokkien are coming back. • “I used to walk by your mosque a lot and ask myself why I would do that. I don’t even hate Muslims.” An Arkansas youth’s jailhouse letter of apology for vandalism tells a different kind of American story — one of regret and healing. With plenty of jerk chicken, Red Stripe beer and steel drums, London’s Notting Hill Carnival wraps up today after a weekend celebrating Caribbean culture. The event — the world’s second-largest street festival after Carnival in Rio de Janeiro — attracts one million to two million people every year. After World War II, job vacancies in Britain led to a mass migration from its colonies in the West Indies. Many of the new arrivals settled in the West London neighborhood of Notting Hill, where rising tensions led to race riots. In an effort to promote unity, an indoor Caribbean carnival was held in 1959 that later morphed into the open-air event of today. Violence has been a perennial concern; in the late 1970s, The Times reported that the authorities were considering banning it. This year, the carnival began with a ceremony for the victims of this summer’s deadly fire at Grenfell Tower, which is nearby. But the carnival “is the difference between sanity and insanity in a society that is full of problems,” one participant told The Times in 1989. “People here need a good bout of jollification.” Thomas Furse contributed reporting. _____ We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. 