I walked into the United States Embassy in Myanmar a few weeks back to be greeted by photographs in the lobby of former president Barack Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton with Aung San Suu Kyi, the country’s elected leader. Everyone was smiling. The Burmese champion of democracy had not yet faced the Rohingya crisis that has dimmed her star. As striking as the radiant images was the absence of any photograph of President Trump or Vice President Mike Pence. When I inquired, embassy staff explained that the official portraits had not yet arrived. As soon as they did, they would go up, of course. Score one for the incompetence argument. Almost a year into his presidency, Trump and his team had not yet sent official photographs to this embassy. Perhaps it was merely a sign of his contempt for the State Department. More likely, it was a sign that our scattershot tweeter-in-chief can’t deliver. All will be well: Trump’s incompetence will outweigh his irascibility, his lies, and his provocations. It’s a comforting theory. I’m not sure. Trump would love a little war he can claim to have won in the cause of making America great again. He’s thinking about it. Little wars are hard to come by these days. Moreover, the generals around him are driven more by prudence than testosterone. Unlike the bone-spur president, they know war. Still, the puzzle remains. A year of Trump and the world has not veered off a precipice. Is there some 21st century iteration of Adam Smith’s “invisible hand” that explains this equilibrium? Certainly the visible — America’s poisonous relations with North Korea, with Iran, with the Palestinians, and the dangerous vacuum created by Trump’s America-first retreat from the world — looks dire. Pax Americana has had a good run but cannot be convincingly backed or projected by a self-doubting power. One stab at defining such an invisible force that I find persuasive has been offered by Philip Howard, a professor of Internet Studies at Oxford University. He has coined the term “Pax Technica” to define the vast web of internet-connected devices that, together, create a network of stability. Just as Smith’s “invisible hand” alluded to the unobservable market forces that lead to equilibrium in a free market, so Howard’s Pax Technica (the title of a book he wrote) evokes the cumulative stabilizing effect of the tens of billions of connected devices forming the Internet of Things (IoT). There is, simply put, too much connection in the world today to allow space for outright destruction, even emanating from Trump. Implicit in this theory is a radical reordering of the nature of power. Pax Romana, Pax Britannica and Pax Americana depended on the military might of sovereign governments. Pax Technica shifts the source of stability to what Howard calls an “empire of connected things.” National authorities are less influential than supranational connected platforms and the private corporations behind them. I mentioned Myanmar. It is a poor country that, in the space of a few years, has acquired tens of millions of Facebook users, joining the more than two billion users (including about 1.3 billion using it every day) who constitute Facebook’s global town square. In some form, all these people in Myanmar, however rudimentary their lives, have initiated an involvement with the world, and acquired some flimsy stake in stability. Of course, we are beyond the naïve view that the internet would liberate us all. It’s clear, from China and elsewhere, that technology can be used as much to curtail freedom as to spread it, as effectively for surveillance as for fostering free speech. It’s also clear, from Russia’s successful intervention in the last United States election, that Facebook can be a vehicle for propaganda and for the blurring of the line between truth and falsehood. Everywhere, social media is transforming society in ways that may look alarming. Mobs are more easily mobilized. Mainstream political parties are imploding. Democracy is more direct but also more driven by extremes. Trump himself is a product of this transformation. Under Pax Technica, there will be advocates of open systems and closed ones. There will be fierce competitions for influence. There will be nationalist and nativist reactions against the supranational apparent across the world today. There will be a reordering of societies — and possibly their increasing fragmentation — as Facebook traps people in what Chamath Palihapitiya, a former Facebook executive, recently called “short-term, dopamine-driven feedback loops.” But there will also be the hard-to-measure investment of every owner of those billions of devices in a world of connectedness of which war is the enemy. Trump has come to power at a moment when power is increasingly passing out of the hands of governments. That may be even more reassuring than his incompetence. Palihapatiya suggested Facebook has forged a world of “no civil discourse, no cooperation, misinformation.” Trump, of course, reflects that. But I think Facebook, on balance, also limits the devastation he can wreak. 