(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Tropical Storm Harvey shifted its wrath to areas east of Houston, hitting the Beaumont-Port Arthur area of Texas with record-breaking rainfall and devastating floods. At least 38 deaths have been reported throughout the region. Among the victims was a woman who was swept into a canal and drowned, while her child survived by clinging to her. This video shows the emotional and physical toll on storm survivors. Our journalists are fanning out to cover the storm and its aftermath. Here’s a collection of the most powerful photographs, (like the one above, of an intersection in northeastern Houston), and a guide to our coverage. Access is free. _____ 2. President Trump pitched a tax overhaul during a visit to Missouri, saying cuts for corporations and eliminating loopholes would help the middle class get raises — but he offered few details beyond the goal of reducing the corporate tax rate to 15 percent. A leading economist disputed the notion that changing the tax system would lead to a growth spurt. In related news, the U.S. economy grew 3 percent in the second quarter, its fastest pace in two years, according to new government figures revising the initial report of just 2.6 percent. _____ 3. The U.S.-led military coalition in Syria bombed a road and bridge to block the transfer of hundreds of Islamic State fighters, foiling a deal made by the Lebanese Army, Hezbollah and Syrian loyalist forces. Above, a man aboard one of the buses transferring the militants. And the U.S. demonstrated the capabilities of its missile defense system, successfully intercepting a medium-range ballistic missile in a test off the coast of Hawaii. A short time later, President Trump accused past administrations of paying “extortion money” to North Korea on Twitter. It was not clear what he was referring to. _____ 4. Since February, our Mexico City bureau has published exclusives about the government’s use of advanced spying technology to monitor lawyers, journalists and others who have investigated corruption. Above, a protest against the spying in June. The latest target is the son of a prominent businessman, who has used his wealth to invest in civil society groups that fight corruption. “We are under siege, but we will continue to denounce corruption and impunity whenever we find it, be it public or private,” the son, Claudio González Jr., said in a statement to The Times. “Mexico is not condemned to be corrupt.” _____ 5. Tomorrow is the 20th anniversary of the death of Princess Diana, who was killed in a car crash in Paris. We’ll have coverage of the commemorations in Britain, where she remains a powerful symbol. Above, her sons, William and Harry, walked past a memorial. A Times of London columnist, in a guest appearance in our pages, writes that despite Diana’s troubled life and tragic death, “the people’s princess” repaired Britain’s broken monarchy. But our reporter found that for younger adults, the anniversary carries less resonance. _____ 6. At least 18,500 members of the Rohingya, a predominantly Muslim ethnic group, fled to Bangladesh from western Myanmar to escape renewed fighting. Most of them were women, children and the elderly. An attack on government posts by a Rohingya militant group last week has led to clashes and a crackdown. The United Nations and human rights groups are calling on the government to exercise restraint, while nationalist monks are urging security forces to assert control over Rakhine State. _____ 7. A gerrymandering case will be argued before the Supreme Court in October. Ahead of that, our magazine writer used Wisconsin as a case study to explain why it matters and how it could shape our democracy. She found that sophisticated computer modeling has taken district manipulation to new extremes, and to fix it, the courts might have to learn to do the math themselves. _____ 8. An ESPN college football analyst is resigning from one of sports broadcasting’s top jobs because of his concern about brain trauma. “I can just no longer be in that cheerleader’s spot,” said Ed Cunningham, a former N.F.L. player. In other sports news, the U.S. Open hosted 87 matches, after all but nine of yesterday’s were postponed because of rain. _____ 9. We spoke with the director and actress of a new one-woman show about the Syrian refugee crisis, “Oh My Sweet Land,” which will take place in a different private home each night of its New York run. The casting notice had requested an actress “confident chopping onions and mincemeat,” and Nadine Malouf answered the call. She’ll cook kibbe, the traditional Middle Eastern meat dish, as she tells the story of searching for the Syrian man she’s fallen in love with. “Every kitchen will have a new geography,” explained the director, Amir Nizar Zuabi. “Every evening will be a new voyage.” _____ 10. Finally, it was 40 years ago, on Aug. 20 and Sept. 5, 1977, that a pair of robots named Voyager were dispatched to explore the outer solar system and the vast darkness beyond. See more about their journey in this video. Our science writer remembers the days covering the launch from the NASA press room. He never had more fun as a science writer. “Back then, we were looking forward to an exploration of space that would go on forever. It was magic, and we were all on the spaceship. What resulted was nothing less than a reimagining of what a world might be.” Have a great night. _____ If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com. 