Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • “The U.S. has been talking to North Korea, and paying them extortion money, for 25 years. Talking is not the answer!” That was President Trump’s latest comment, via Twitter, on rising nuclear tensions with Pyongyang. It came as the U.S. demonstrated the capabilities of its missile defense system, successfully intercepting a medium-range ballistic missile, above, off the coast of Hawaii. The British prime minister, Theresa May, on a visit to Japan to discuss a post-Brexit trade deal, called on China to strengthen its actions against North Korea, refused to rule out British military involvement and is set to discuss new sanctions with her Japanese counterpart, Shinzo Abe, today. _____ • Tropical Storm Harvey shifted its path to areas east of Houston, hitting the Beaumont-Port Arthur area of Texas with record-breaking rainfall and devastating floods. At least 38 deaths have been reported across the storm-hit region. Among the victims was a woman who was swept into a canal and drowned, while her child survived by clinging to her. This video shows the emotional and physical toll on storm survivors. Above, waters receding in Houston. Times journalists are fanning out to cover the storm and its aftermath. Here’s a collection of the most powerful photographs, and a guide to our coverage. Access is free. _____ • Across South Asia, monsoon flooding appears to be the worst in years. The death toll for the summer has risen to least 1,200 in India, Bangladesh and Nepal. Millions of people have been left without sufficient food, shelter or clean water. Mumbai, above, is recovering from days of lashing rains. Our India correspondent got to know one family who have repeatedly endured the city’s epic floods. “We don’t even have a dream of where we would go,” said the father. _____ • At least 18,500 Rohingya Muslims have fled to Bangladesh from Myanmar since deadly clashes erupted five days ago. But they face the prospect of little relief. Bangladesh’s border camps already house about 400,000 refugees. _____ • Today is the 20th anniversary of the death of Princess Diana. The royal family, including her sons, William and Harry, have been publicly mourning her death in a car crash in Paris. Despite her troubled life and tragic death, this Op-Ed contributor argues, “the people’s princess” repaired Britain’s broken monarchy. But our reporter says that, for younger people, her memory carries less resonance. _____ • And scientists are shedding light on a 600-year-old space mystery. In 1437, astronomers in Korea spotted a new star that vanished 14 nights later. After years of searching, their modern counterparts identified the source of that brief brightening — a binary star system a couple of thousand light-years away.  • The U.S. economy grew 3 percent in the second quarter, its fastest pace in two years, according to new government figures revising the initial report of just 2.6 percent. And President Trump pitched a sweeping tax overhaul, but offered few specifics beyond a goal of a 15 percent corporate tax rate, down from 35 percent. • The damage from the storm pounding the U.S. Gulf Coast has raised questions about whether so much of the country’s energy industry should be concentrated there. • Before Uber’s board chose Dara Khosrowshahi to be the company’s new chief, there were power plays, negotiations for more leverage and wild swings in support. • JD.com, the Chinese online retail giant, will award $15 million to winners of a competition to find the best way to introduce drone delivery services in China. • U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • A former South Korean spy chief was sent from a courtroom directly to prison after a judge sentenced him to four years for ordering an online smear campaign against presidential rivals of Park Geun-hye in 2012. [The New York Times] • The U.S.-led military coalition in Syria bombed a road and bridge to block the transfer of hundreds of Islamic State fighters, foiling a deal made by the Lebanese Army, Hezbollah and Syrian loyalist forces. [The New York Times] • The recent lynching of a suspected thief in a gritty Jakarta suburb opened debate on Indonesia’s vigilante mobs. [The New York Times] • The so-called Asian Nobels will be awarded at ceremonies in Manila today. [ABS-CBN] • The New America Foundation, a think tank that has received major funding from Google and its founder, exiled a scholar and his team after he publicly praised a $2.7 billion European antitrust fine on the company. [The New York Times] • Two doctors in India were suspended amid outrage over a circulating video of them arguing while standing over a pregnant patient during an operation. [BBC] • Australia plays Japan today for a spot in the 2018 soccer World Cup. [Associated Press] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Here’s how to properly care for your clothes. • Recipe of the day: Make tonight’s dinner special with mustard-glazed pork tenderloin. • Scholars have long debated the purpose of 60 numbers written on a 3,700-year-old Babylonian clay tablet. Two Australian mathematicians believe they have figured it out. • In memoriam: Sumiteru Taniguchi, 88, who was badly burned in the 1945 atomic bombing of Nagasaki and devoted his life to abolishing nuclear weapons . And David Tang, 63, the Hong Kong entrepreneur and socialite who founded the Shanghai Tang clothing chain. • And when is a shoe not just a shoe? Melania Trump, the first lady, accompanied her husband to Texas, but her stiletto heels got all the attention. Our fashion critic explains why. Our story last week about how the Spanish language is thriving in the U.S. mentioned the song of the summer, “Despacito.” A remix of a hit by the Puerto Rican musicians Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee, above, the song features Justin Bieber singing in Spanish. It’s one of only three Spanish-language songs to hit No. 1 on Billboard’s Hot 100 chart. Can you guess the other two? Time’s up. The first was the only of the three songs to be sung entirely in Spanish: a cover of “La Bamba” by the group Los Lobos that, coincidentally enough, topped the chart 30 years ago this week. A Mexican folk song, “La Bamba” was propelled to (renewed) fame by the 1987 film of the same name, a biopic of Ritchie Valens. Valens released what is perhaps the best-known version of the song, in 1958, before dying the next year in a plane crash at 17. The other hit was “Macarena,” originally released by the Spanish duo Los del Rio before a remix by the Bayside Boys became inescapable in 1996. Even delegates at that summer’s Democratic National Convention got into the rhythm. Sort of. The song made headlines again recently after the police in Saudi Arabia detained a teenager who was captured on video dancing along. Sandra E. Garcia contributed reporting. _____ If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play. We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. 