GENEVA — As fighting in western Myanmar sent thousands of refugees fleeing to Bangladesh, the United Nations top human rights official on Tuesday urged Myanmar’s military to show restraint and accused the office of the country’s de facto leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, of issuing “irresponsible” statements that could endanger international aid organizations. United Nations officials said more than 8,700 Rohingya, members of Myanmar’s Muslim minority, have fled across the border to Bangladesh from Rakhine state since Saturday, following clashes last week between security forces and a militant group identified as the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army. The fighting was reported to have killed more than 100 people. In comments posted on Facebook on Sunday, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s office said the authorities were investigating reports that staff members of international organizations “had participated” in operations carried out by “extremist terrorists.” It said biscuits supplied by the United Nations food agency had been found at a rebel camp site. Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, said on Tuesday that he utterly condemned the violence and that those responsible should be brought to justice. But he also rebuked Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s office for its statements, which he said were “irresponsible and only serve to increase fears and the potential for further violence.” “I am extremely concerned that the unsupported allegations against international aid organizations place their staff in danger and may make it impossible for them to deliver essential aid,” Mr. al-Hussein said in a statement issued by his office in Geneva. The comments, which appeared to have been removed from Facebook on Tuesday, pointed to the deterioration in relations between the government and the United Nations since October, when insurgents attacked police border posts in Rakhine. Mr. al-Hussein lamented the latest upsurge in violence but said, “It was predicted and could have been prevented.” He said “decades of persistent and systematic human rights violations, including the very violent security responses to the attacks since October 2016, have almost certainly contributed to the nurturing of violent extremism.” In the security crackdown after those attacks, around 80,000 Rohingya fled to Bangladesh, bringing accounts of summary executions, mass rape and villagers burned alive in their homes. United Nations investigators who looked into those accounts said Myanmar’s army and police might have committed crimes against humanity. Mr. al-Hussein said that Myanmar’s authorities should “issue clear instructions to security forces to refrain from using disproportionate force” and that those who use excessive force should be held accountable. The latest attacks in Rakhine have raised alarm among aid and human rights groups that Myanmar may be on the brink of returning to similar violence. On Tuesday, the United Nations said it had suspended aid operations in the state and had relocated noncritical international and national staff members from Maungdaw, the state capital, because of safety concerns. Most refugees who crossed the border in recent days were women and children, and there were reports that some were wounded, the United Nations refugee agency told reporters in Geneva. It voiced concern that the number of people needing help would rise in coming days. Thousands more Rohingya were stranded on the Myanmar side of the border, with Bangladeshi guards pushing back many of those trying to get across. The refugee agency called on Bangladesh to open its border and allow those fleeing violence to find safety. Human Rights Watch said Tuesday that Myanmar’s army had built up its forces in northern Rakhine since last week’s attacks. The group said that new satellite images pointed to widespread burning in at least 10 areas of northern Rakhine, covering a larger amount of territory than did the October violence. The cause of the fires could not be identified but some occurred in locations that corresponded with areas where witnesses reported deliberate burning of houses by the military, Human Rights Watch said. It called for international pressure on the government to reveal what is taking place there. The United Nations has set up a three-person fact-finding mission led by a veteran Indonesian investigator, Marzuki Darusman, to look into allegations of human rights violations by military and security forces in Myanmar, particularly in Rakhine. The Myanmar government, however, has said it will not cooperate or allow them to visit. 