

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. When I came into office, I promised to look at the world’s challenges with open eyes and very fresh thinking. We cannot solve our problems by making the same failed assumptions and repeating the same failed strategies of the past. Old challenges demand new approaches.

My announcement today marks the beginning of a new approach to conflict between Israel and the Palestinians.

Get The Times of Israel's Daily Edition by email and never miss our top stories
Free Sign Up

In 1995, Congress adopted the Jerusalem Embassy Act, urging the federal government to relocate the American embassy to Jerusalem and to recognize that that city — and so importantly — is Israel’s capital. This act passed Congress by an overwhelming bipartisan majority and was reaffirmed by a unanimous vote of the Senate only six months ago.

Yet, for over 20 years, every previous American president has exercised the law’s waiver, refusing to move the US embassy to Jerusalem or to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital city.
US President Donald Trump holds up a signed memorandum after he delivered a statement on Jerusalem from the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House in Washington, DC on December 6, 2017 as US Vice President Mike Pence looks on. (Saul Loeb/AFP)

Presidents issued these waivers under the belief that delaying the recognition of Jerusalem would advance the cause of peace. Some say they lacked courage, but they made their best judgments based on facts as they understood them at the time. Nevertheless, the record is in. After more than two decades of waivers, we are no closer to a lasting peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. It would be folly to assume that repeating the exact same formula would now produce a different or better result.

Therefore, I have determined that it is time to officially recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.

While previous presidents have made this a major campaign promise, they failed to deliver. Today, I am delivering.

I’ve judged this course of action to be in the best interests of the United States of America and the pursuit of peace between Israel and the Palestinians. This is a long-overdue step to advance the peace process and to work towards a lasting agreement.
US President Donald Trump signs a memorandum after he delivered a statement on Jerusalem from the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House in Washington, DC on December 6, 2017. (Saul Loeb/AFP)

Israel is a sovereign nation with the right like every other sovereign nation to determine its own capital. Acknowledging this as a fact is a necessary condition for achieving peace.

It was 70 years ago that the United States, under President Truman, recognized the State of Israel. Ever since then, Israel has made its capital in the city of Jerusalem — the capital the Jewish people established in ancient times. Today, Jerusalem is the seat of the modern Israeli government. It is the home of the Israeli parliament, the Knesset, as well as the Israeli Supreme Court. It is the location of the official residence of the Prime Minister and the President. It is the headquarters of many government ministries.

For decades, visiting American presidents, secretaries of state, and military leaders have met their Israeli counterparts in Jerusalem, as I did on my trip to Israel earlier this year.

Jerusalem is not just the heart of three great religions, but it is now also the heart of one of the most successful democracies in the world. Over the past seven decades, the Israeli people have built a country where Jews, Muslims, and Christians, and people of all faiths are free to live and worship according to their conscience and according to their beliefs.

Jerusalem is today, and must remain, a place where Jews pray at the Western Wall, where Christians walk the Stations of the Cross, and where Muslims worship at Al-Aqsa Mosque.
A picture taken on December 6, 2017 shows a Palestinian man at a cafe in Jerusalem watching an address given by US President Donald Trump. (Ahmad GHARABLI/AFP)

However, through all of these years, presidents representing the United States have declined to officially recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. In fact, we have declined to acknowledge any Israeli capital at all.

But today, we finally acknowledge the obvious: that Jerusalem is Israel’s capital. This is nothing more, or less, than a recognition of reality. It is also the right thing to do. It’s something that has to be done.

That is why, consistent with the Jerusalem Embassy Act, I am also directing the State Department to begin preparation to move the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. This will immediately begin the process of hiring architects, engineers, and planners, so that a new embassy, when completed, will be a magnificent tribute to peace.

In making these announcements, I also want to make one point very clear: This decision is not intended, in any way, to reflect a departure from our strong commitment to facilitate a lasting peace agreement. We want an agreement that is a great deal for the Israelis and a great deal for the Palestinians. We are not taking a position on any final status issues, including the specific boundaries of the Israeli sovereignty in Jerusalem, or the resolution of contested borders. Those questions are up to the parties involved.

The United States remains deeply committed to helping facilitate a peace agreement that is acceptable to both sides. I intend to do everything in my power to help forge such an agreement. Without question, Jerusalem is one of the most sensitive issues in those talks. The United States would support a two-state solution if agreed to by both sides.
US President Donald Trump delivers a statement on Jerusalem from the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House in Washington, DC on December 6, 2017. (Saul Loeb/AFP)

In the meantime, I call on all parties to maintain the status quo at Jerusalem’s holy sites, including the Temple Mount, also known as Haram al-Sharif.

Above all, our greatest hope is for peace, the universal yearning in every human soul. With today’s action, I reaffirm my administration’s longstanding commitment to a future of peace and security for the region.

There will, of course, be disagreement and dissent regarding this announcement. But we are confident that ultimately, as we work through these disagreements, we will arrive at a peace and a place far greater in understanding and cooperation.

This sacred city should call forth the best in humanity, lifting our sights to what it is possible; not pulling us back and down to the old fights that have become so totally predictable. Peace is never beyond the grasp of those willing to reach.

So today, we call for calm, for moderation, and for the voices of tolerance to prevail over the purveyors of hate. Our children should inherit our love, not our conflicts.

I repeat the message I delivered at the historic and extraordinary summit in Saudi Arabia earlier this year: The Middle East is a region rich with culture, spirit, and history. Its people are brilliant, proud, and diverse, vibrant and strong. But the incredible future awaiting this region is held at bay by bloodshed, ignorance, and terror.

Vice President Pence will travel to the region in the coming days to reaffirm our commitment to work with partners throughout the Middle East to defeat radicalism that threatens the hopes and dreams of future generations.
US President Donald Trump delivers a statement on Jerusalem from the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House in Washington, DC on December 6, 2017. (Saul Loeb/AFP)

It is time for the many who desire peace to expel the extremists from their midst. It is time for all civilized nations, and people, to respond to disagreement with reasoned debate –- not violence.

And it is time for young and moderate voices all across the Middle East to claim for themselves a bright and beautiful future.

So today, let us rededicate ourselves to a path of mutual understanding and respect. Let us rethink old assumptions and open our hearts and minds to possible and possibilities. And finally, I ask the leaders of the region — political and religious; Israeli and Palestinian; Jewish and Christian and Muslim — to join us in the noble quest for lasting peace.

Thank you. God bless you. God bless Israel. God bless the Palestinians. And God bless the United States. Thank you very much. Thank you.


The State of Israel would appear to have a vacancy at the very top.

Seven weeks after we held elections and chose our 120 members of parliament, none of those 120 appears capable of winning the support of a majority of his or her colleagues to actually run the country.

Yes, 65 of them, in the immediate aftermath of the vote, recommended to President Reuven Rivlin that our hyper-talented, long-proven, acutely controversial incumbent, Benjamin Netanyahu, be charged with the task of assembling another government. But seven weeks after we citizens dutifully placed our voting slips in those little blue envelopes — with the global spotlight having long since moved on and most folks worldwide having doubtless assumed that Netanyahu was safely re-ensconced in power — he has failed to cobble together the various bickering factions whose support he needs. And his loyalists have been reduced to imploring various MKs from parties that emphatically do not want to join him to nonetheless defect, and help Netanyahu secure a majority with evidently insufficiently attractive promises of high ministerial office should they cross party lines.


Stymied primarily by his longtime nemesis Avigdor Liberman, who has suddenly decided that a legislative effort of no particular significance (more on this in a moment) simply has to go through parliament without so much as a punctuation change, Netanyahu now faces what he would appear to believe are two options: He can slink unhappily off to see Rivlin and tell the president that, sorry, he can’t form a majority government after all, and somebody else should now have a try; or, he can engineer new elections and hope the public rewards him in a few months’ time with a slightly different crop of MKs — hopefully excluding the meddlesome Liberman — whom he can mold into a compliant majority.
President Reuven Rivlin (right) and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the President’s Residence in Jerusalem on April 17, 2019, as Rivlin asks Netanyahu to form a new coalition after the April 9 elections. (Noam Revkin Fenton/Flash90)

Both of these options are dreadful for Netanyahu. Option one, admitting defeat and giving someone else a chance to be prime minister, is plain unthinkable. If the words “prime minister” and “Benjamin Netanyahu” are synonymous in the minds of many Israelis, they are veritably welded together in the psyche of the man himself. He simply doesn’t exist otherwise. But option two is unthinkable as well, since new elections, which would be held in September, would likely leave him insufficient time to advance the anti-democratic legislative gambits by which he hopes to immunize himself from prosecution in the three criminal cases for which he faces indictment. His pre-indictment hearing before the attorney general is set for October, and if he can’t persuade the attorney general to change his mind, and can’t legislate to gain immunity from prosecution, he will find himself on trial for bribery soon after.

While Netanyahu hasn’t thus far been able to get the necessary votes to secure a majority coalition, however, the signs for now are that none of his 119 legislator colleagues could do so either. All 65 of the MKs who last month recommended Netanyahu to Rivlin as PM, including Liberman and his four Yisrael Beytenu colleagues, are standing by their choice. There is no shortage of men and women in that 65 who privately hold reservations regarding Netanyahu. More than that, several MKs in the lower slots of the Likud Knesset slate fear losing their seats if we are sentenced to another round of elections (and especially if Moshe Kahlon’s Kulanu party is merged into the Likud), and it is conceivable that they might vote against dissolving the House should we actually get to a dissolution vote on Wednesday. In the improbable event that the dissolution bill then fails, Netanyahu’s aura of invincibility would be shattered and he would be in deep trouble. But as of this writing, none of the 65 is ready to overtly defy Netanyahu and side with a different prime ministerial candidate.
Benny Gantz, leader of the Blue and White party, claims victory following elections for the Knesset on April 9, 2019’s elections, in a speech in Tel Aviv (Menahem Kahana/AFP)

That, in turn, means Benny Gantz, the ex-IDF chief who heads the main Blue and White opposition alliance, is as incapable as he was seven weeks ago of mustering enough support for a Knesset majority under his leadership. And the same goes for the other 54 MKs on the opposition benches.

Gantz, who made a spectacularly ill-timed “victory” speech hours after the polls closed on April 9 — when it was clear to everyone but him that he had no majority — is again reluctant to face up to the political arithmetic. We therefore witnessed the surreal sight, early in the hours of Tuesday morning, of Netanyahu and his supporters voting in favor of the first reading of a bill to dissolve parliament seven weeks after an election in which they came out on top, while Gantz and his supporters unsuccessfully voted against dissolution, in the faint hope that Gantz might, in the days and weeks ahead, defy political gravity and persuade several right-wing or ultra-Orthodox MKs to back him as prime minister.

You’d have thought the opposition would be only too happy to allow Netanyahu and his allies to admit their embarrassing defeat — to allow Likud and its satellite parties, that is, to demonstrate to the public that they are incapable of putting their minor differences aside and build a majority — and to subject us all to another election. You’d have thought the opposition would have enough self-confidence — especially given indications of public dismay at Netanyahu’s post-election efforts to place himself above the law — to think that new elections would mark an opportunity to turn April’s defeat into success in September. Evidently not.
Likud MK Benny Begin during a Likud party meeting at the Knesset, May 25, 2015. (Yonatan Sindel/Flash90)

So here we ignominiously find ourselves, seven weeks after the elections, with 120 freshly sworn in MKs, and none of them capable of commanding a parliamentary majority. Netanyahu can’t do it. Nobody in Likud, Shas, United Torah Judaism, Kulanu or the United Right-Wing Parties dares at this stage to seek to usurp him. Rebel-in-chief Liberman is plainly delighted to thwart him, but cannot replace him. And nobody in the opposition can get the votes either.
Beit Shemesh Mayor-elect Aliza Bloch speaks during a press conference at the Beit Shemesh municipality building on November 20, 2018. (Yaakov Lederman/Flash90)

Perhaps, therefore, the time has come for a little creative thinking. If we want to spare ourselves fresh elections — if we want to avoid, as Netanyahu put it on Monday night, becoming “what Italy once was” — perhaps we need to think outside the box, or, rather, to look outside the Knesset.

Is there not somebody outside the 120 newly elected legislators upon whom a majority of those 120 could agree as their new leader? What about Benny Begin, the unerringly ethical son of the legendary first Likud prime minister Menachem? Or Beit Shemesh’s impressive new mayor Aliza Bloch? Or if we’re already spreading the net, what about SodaStream’s fizzy water-to-gold alchemist Daniel Birnbaum?
Scarlett Johansson with Sodastream’s Daniel Birnbaum (photo credit: Mike Coppola/Getty Images for SodaStream/via JTA)

Or the inspirational Marie Nahmias, the 93-year-old Tunisian-born matriarch who fostered 52 Jewish and Arab children, and who brought this fractured country together for a few brief moments with her plea for tolerance when she lit a torch at last month’s Independence Day festivities? She probably doesn’t have the security chops, but doubtless the recently retired IDF chief of staff Gabi Eisenkot would be only too pleased to offer his assistance.
Host Aviv Alush, left, and torch-lighter Marie Nahmias, 93, at Israel’s 71st Independence Day ceremony in Jerusalem, May 8, 2019. (Kan screen capture)

No, I am not being serious. Nahmias probably wouldn’t take the job (though Birnbaum might). But Israeli law, in any case, requires that the PM be an MK, and an MK can’t simply step aside on a whim and allow an outsider of choice to come in and take his or her seat.

I’m not being serious. But then again, neither, to the immense detriment of this country, are our politicians, headed by Netanyahu.

Overflowing with personal enmity for the prime minister, Liberman is preventing a coalition, and condemning us to utterly unnecessary elections, in the ostensible cause of a law that barely changes the current untenable, discriminatory situation in which only a tiny proportion of the ultra-Orthodox sector does any kind of military or national service.

And Netanyahu is pleading with Liberman to change his mind rather than warning the ultra-Orthodox leadership — United Torah Judaism’s Yaakov Litzman, Shas’s Aryeh Deri, and their rabbinical patrons — that if they don’t assent to the passage of this law, he’ll hit them with legislation that might genuinely require their community to take on its fair share of the national service responsibility.
Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman is hosted by Minister of Health Yaakov Litzman (left), at a meal to celebrate the birth of Litzman’s grandson, June 18, 2017. (Shlomi Cohen/FLASH90)

While Netanyahu is looking at his two lousy ostensible options — letting someone else try (and almost certainly fail) to form a government, or consigning us to new elections — he plainly has a third: reversing the usual process by which ultra-Orthodox politicians extort him and the rest of the country, and telling them that they’d better get in line or else. The ultra-Orthodox may feel they have nothing to lose from new elections in terms of Knesset seats, but they would have a lot to lose from a less empathetic and accommodating prime minister.

If Netanyahu doesn’t realize that this is the course he ought to take, and if he can’t muster the skills in order to prevail, then even some of his loyal supporters will begin to wonder what has become of their formidable prime minister.


