Before reading the article: Read the two paragraphs below, from the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs website: The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is a landmark international treaty whose objective is to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and weapons technology, to promote cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and to further the goal of achieving nuclear disarmament and general and complete disarmament. The Treaty represents the only binding commitment in a multilateral treaty to the goal of disarmament by the nuclear-weapon States. Opened for signature in 1968, the Treaty entered into force in 1970. On 11 May 1995, the Treaty was extended indefinitely. A total of 191 States have joined the Treaty, including the five nuclear-weapon States. More countries have ratified the NPT than any other arms limitation and disarmament agreement, a testament to the Treaty’s significance. Next, watch the two-minute video, below, as President Barack Obama outlines the 2015 agreement between Iran and world powers. What else do you know about the Iranian nuclear deal, either from the news, school or elsewhere? Now, read the article, “Trump Pulls U.S. From ‘One-Sided’ Iran Nuclear Deal,” and answer the following questions:  1. What did President Trump declare on Tuesday, and what is he planning to unravel? 2. What did Iran decide to do as a result of Mr. Trump’s announcement? What did France, Britain and Germany decide? 3. What drove Mr. Trump to withdraw, according to the article, and why did he think it might help with a forthcoming negotiation with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un? 4. How did European leaders react to Mr. Trump’s announcement? What did Mr. Obama say? What did Hassan Rouhani, president of Iran, declare? 5. What did Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel say about Mr. Trump’s decision? 6. What had the president’s aides previously tried three times to do, and why did Mr. Trump face less internal resistance this time? 7. What did Mr. Trump say about the deal, and what are his arguments against it? 8. How will financial sanctions affect European companies that have operations in Iran? What will oil sanctions require from European and Asian countries? 9. What did Emmanuel Macron of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain note in a joint statement? Finally, tell us more about what you think:  Make some predictions. How will reimposed sanctions affect Iran after the United States drops out of the landmark international nuclear treaty? Why do you think so? Will other nations follow the United States, causing the treaty to fall apart completely? Will the remaining countries continue to uphold the agreement? Will something else happen instead? What do you think Iran will do now, and why? How do you think the United States will be viewed by European nations now? How will the United States be viewed by the rest of the countries that signed the treaty, and by countries in other parts of the world? Why do you think so? Read 10 to 15 of the Readers Picks comments from the article. Which ones stood out to you, and why? See related Times coverage: “What Changes and What Remains in the Iran Nuclear Deal,” “Opponents of Iran Deal Hired Investigators to Dig Up Dirt on Obama Aide” and “Trump’s Termination of Iran Deal Is Risky Bet That U.S. Can ‘Break the Regime.’” 