DOHA, Qatar — On the sideline of a grass soccer field a few hundred yards from the recently renovated Khalifa International Stadium, Bora Milutinovic is receiving a stream of well-wishers in four languages. Milutinovic, who has taken the national teams of five countries to the World Cup, shakes hands with dozens of people, seamlessly switching among Serbian, Spanish, German and English, as a match begins in front of him. At 73, Milutinovic is unlikely to be tasked with guiding a sixth country in a World Cup, but he may have a bigger and more difficult job than that these days. He is now a soccer adviser to members of Qatar’s royal family and a technical adviser for the Aspire Academy, the vast and controversial talent-spotting operation financed by Qatar’s government. Created by royal decree in 2004, Aspire was given the monumental task of nurturing a national team that can compete with the world’s best when the country hosts the 2022 World Cup. On this evening, Milutinovic is checking on the progress of Qatar’s under-19 national team, which is playing its Croatian counterpart in the final of a friendly tournament. “It changes slowly,” Milutinovic said. “Every day it gets better.” But perhaps not quickly enough. Five years before Qatar hosts the World Cup, and as dozens of nations book their places this week into next summer’s tournament in Russia, the state of soccer in Qatar is still very much a work in progress. Construction projects for the tournament continue to reshape the country, and more than a half-dozen new stadiums are rising. But the project to build a world-class national soccer team remains an expensive work in progress. Last month, Qatar ensured that it would be the first host country to have never qualified for a World Cup. The national team’s 3-1 defeat to Syria in the penultimate round of Asian qualification for Russia 2018 officially dashed any lingering hope that Qatar would earn a place in the event on merit before it is granted one on protocol. It was a humbling failure, and it provided new ammunition to the critics of Qatar’s successful bid to host the tournament, which has been bedeviled by accusations of corruption and worker rights abuses. Many point to those factors, but also to the absence of a deep-rooted soccer-playing culture, as proof that Qatar should not be hosting the tournament at all. Yet there has been soul-searching within the country, too, about Qatar’s approach to building a team; about whether past efforts to naturalize foreign players should be ramped up, or abandoned; about whether the importing of expensive, aging stars has raised the level of the domestic top division, the Qatar Stars League; and about the success of the Aspire Academy, a vast complex in Doha that now coaches tens of thousands of athletes across different sports. These questions all get to the heart of Qatar’s soccer problem, which in reality may be one of simple demographics. Qatar has “maybe 300,000” citizens, Milutinovic noted, and only a few thousand of them are licensed soccer players. And no amount of money, which oil- and gas-rich Qatar has in abundance, seems to be able to create more of them fast enough. A short drive from one of Qatar’s air-conditioned soccer stadiums, deep inside a warren of corridors and TV studios, 10 men, all but one wearing Qatari traditional dress, sat on white cushions placed along a wall. They represented the great and good of Qatari soccer — former players, coaches and newspaper editors — and they were preparing to argue long into the night. This was the set of “Al Majlis,” a soccer talk show on the Al Kass network. The program is one of the most popular sports shows in the Middle East, and on this night there was much to discuss after a particularly bad-tempered local match. “Everyone was tweeting, wait to see what they say on ‘Al Majlis,’” Abdulaziz Breida, a young producer for the show, said in the darkened control room as his editor shouted camera instructions in Arabic. He was planning for a late night. “We might not finish until 2 or 3 in the morning,” Breida said. The show’s set is modeled on a traditional majlis, a large, square room found in many Arab homes where guests are invited to meet and talk. The show regularly attracts big names; Lionel Messi has been a guest. Today’s lineup includes the former Iraq captain Younis Mahmoud. Almost as soon as the cameras roll, the discussion crackles to life. One particularly dubious penalty decision is dissected over and over, from multiple angles, for close to 30 minutes. “Sometimes, during the Champions League or Emir Cup, this can last for 12 hours,” Breida said of the show. Tonight’s installment runs for a solid four. The guests are kept in check by the host Khalid Jassim, but it is abundantly clear that Qataris are, without question, world class at talking soccer. And all of them know that but for a few bounces of the ball over the years — on two occasions, in 1989 and 1997, Qatar came within one game of qualifying for the World Cup — the perception of Qatari soccer could be quite different. “One game with Saudi Arabia, we needed to draw and we lost,” said Khalid Salman, a frequent guest on “Al Majlis” who played 135 times for Qatar’s national team. “It is my bad luck I never went to the World Cup,” he added. “But the World Cup is coming to us.” What the Qatar team will look like in 2022 is a frequent topic on the show, and whenever Qataris talk soccer. Many here point to France and the United States as examples of countries that have benefited from naturalizing athletes who were born abroad. “You know Mohamed Farah?” said Jassim, referring to the distance runner. “He is Somalian, yes? But he got the British passport and got good results in the Olympiad.” The issue is more sensitive, though, in soccer. As Qatar has waited for its Aspire graduates to fill its national team rosters, its soccer association for years relied on a controversial policy of naturalizations to fill the gaps. Even during this World Cup qualification cycle, Qatar’s roster included players born in Brazil, Uruguay, France and Guinea. Jorge Fossati, a Uruguayan coach who took charge of the national team, threatened to quit last year after it was reported that Qatar’s soccer federation might consider phasing out naturalized players. (He stayed, then resigned suddenly six months later.) After Fossati’s departure, Qatar’s last two matches in World Cup qualification featured more native-born players; the team that played China in the final Russia 2018 qualification match last month contained eight Qataris who were born or raised in the country. “Anyone who gets a Qatar passport, we’ll respect him,” Jassim said. “But we can talk about why are we taking players who are not quality? This is why the fans are angry.” “They have talent, they are technical,” Xavi Hernández says of his Qatari teammates at Al Sadd, the Qatar Stars League club he has played for since 2015. “The big difference is, tactically, they don’t know how we attack, how we defend. That is the big difference. Conceptuality. On the field.” Xavi’s presence here, too, is part of the broader Qatari soccer development plan. A World Cup champion with Spain and a Champions League winner with Barcelona, Xavi said he was ready to leave La Liga two years ago, feeling he could no longer play at the highest level. So he moved to Qatar, in part because of the money, but also to train as a coach. But part of Xavi’s job, as an experienced professional with a glittering résumé, is to help promote Qatar 2022, and to nurture the next generation of domestic players. “It is not easy because it is a very small country,” he said. “I think we have only 6,000 licensed players.” He singled out several with potential, including two Aspire graduates, Akram Afif and Ahmed Yasser, who now play in Europe. Each plays for a Qatari-controlled club, Afif at K.A.S. Eupen in Belgium and Yasser at Cultural Leonesa in Spain’s second division. That, too, is part of Qatar’s long-range plan. Aspire bought the clubs as part of its strategy to set up a soccer pipeline that would include Qatari players, and expose the best of them to better competition, first at home and then abroad. But that weekend, only a few hundred supporters turned up at Al Sadd’s Jassim Bin Hamad Stadium to see Xavi turn a match around. His two defense-splitting passes led to two goals, and to Al Sadd’s 2-1 victory over Al-Gharafa. Outside the stadium, in the oppressive evening humidity, a group of around 70 local boys wearing traditional white robes waited to meet their heroes, and also to shout abuse and throw Qatari riyal notes at the opposition. With the final whistle approaching, Qatar’s under-19 team finally breaks through Croatia’s defense to score the only goal of the game. The assist comes off the foot of 18-year-old Abdulrasheed Ibrahim, who was born in Nigeria but has advanced through Aspire’s various youth teams, scoring goals at every level. “They have three or four very good players with talents,” Milutinovic said of the Qatari side. “But you never know what will happen in the future.” By the time the 2022 World Cup kicks off, many of these players will be 24 and approaching their prime. Well before then, some may head to Europe. A few probably will feature in next year’s Asian under-23 championship in China, the next chance for Aspire’s players to get competitive experience, and for the men from “Al Majlis” to chew over how they do. That is why, at least for now, Milutinovic, continues to preach patience. In the early 1990s, he spent more than three years grooming an internationally unproven United States team to host a home World Cup in 1994. “You need to believe, you need to dream, you need to prepare good,” he said of the similar project he sees playing out now. “But to be ready, you need to be ready in 2022, in June. Only this is important. One week before the World Cup, you can speak that your team is ready for the World Cup. Not before.” 