
Hyderabad Metro Rail Ltd. (HMRL) inaugurated four new commercial ventures for the benefit of passengers at its Ameerpet station here on Monday. The new attractions include four e-bikes which are electrically chargeable, two eateries — Dadu’s and Local Cafe and an art exhibition and sale.The bikes can be used at the rate of Rs. 1 per kilometre. Unlike the motor bikes in other stations that use petrol and diesel, the e-bikes can also be taken home for charging, to be returned to the metro station the next day. The bikes can also be charged at charging stations that are expected to come in different parts of the city by the end of this year. “We need e-solutions for transport even as we arrange first and last mile connectivity for Metro passengers. The e-bikes initiative is a step towards this direction. Soon, all metro stations in the city will have e-bikes and also e-cabs,” said N.V.S. Reddy, Managing Director of HMRL.Mr. Reddy inaugurated all the four ventures in Ameerpet which already has a Ratnadeep supermarket outlet. In the first floor of the station, Dadu’s, an eatery that offers sweets and snacks started functioning on Monday. Local Cafe, another eatery which offers the experience of eating at a local dhaba thanks to its designed interiors has also started serving customers. “The rates at which food is offered at Metro stations is very reasonable,” Mr. Reddy said.It was at the suggestion of Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan that two artists, Hari and Anitha were asked to exhibit their work in the ground floor of the station, Mr. Reddy pointed out. Currently the Metro plies 80,000 to 85,000 passengers per day, he noted. When all corridors of the Metro start operation the transit system will ply five lakh passengers per day, the managing director calculated. In a few years, Metro could ply 15 lakh passengers per day, he added.Huge demandCommercial space in Metro stations have huge demand, Mr. Reddy stated on Monday. About 80 per cent of the space that was allotted for commercial activities that includes sales and services are already booked, he added. In Punjagutta, the shopping mall which functions in the Metro station has already leased 90 per cent of its commercial space. Similarly in Hi-Tech City and Erramanzil stations too 90 per cent of commercial space has been occupied and is operational. In Metro station which is under construction at Musarambagh, 50 per cent of the space is already booked, Mr. Reddy said.Ameerpet to L. B Nagar corridor is ready for operations, Mr. Reddy announced, adding HMRL should procure safety certificate from Halcrow, a company which offers infrastructure consultancy. Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) should also give safety certification before the corridor is opened for passengers. “Any time in August we will open Ameerpet-L.B Nagar corridor for passengers,” Mr. Reddy told media persons.
