
Heavy rains not only drenched and ravaged the city but also became the biggest stumbling block towards completion of the Hyderabad metro rail works both on the viaduct atop and the ground below at the station areas. With the countdown on for the scheduled inauguration of the first stretch of 30 kms of the metro from Nagole to Miyapur towards the end of next month, engineers and officers are praying for a let up to complete all the crucial works.Since the big construction works of assembling and stationing the giant steel bridge across the Oliphenta Bridge were completed successfully and at a quicker pace, there was confidence among HMR and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad officials of being able to pull it off including the herculean task of two-level Ameerpet station. Apart from this key station which will be connecting the two stretches of Nagole to Ameerpet - 7 km (Corridor Three: Nagole to Hi-Tec City/Raidurg) and Miyapur to Ameerpet - 13 km (Corridor One: Miyapur to L.B.Nagar) where about 900 highly skilled workers are on the job round the clock, the government has also decided on a complete ‘urban rejuvenation’ along the inaugural stretch. While the road-laying work has been left to the newly formed Hyderabad Road Development Corporation, HMR has finalised tenders for improving street scape across 700 metres underneath all the 24 stations along this route in the two corridors at a total cost of Rs. 50 crore for about 60 works like signages, bus bays, street furniture, widening footpaths, barricading and so on. “For now we will be doing the work for about 220 metres right below the stations before the inauguration is done by Prime Minister Narendera Modi on Nov. 28. Equal amount of space before and after this will be taken up later. But everything has gone haywire because of the heavy rains,” said HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy.With track-laying work almost complete in this 30 km stretch, electrical tower cars have been running up and down for testing the power lines. Cabling for signalling is also apace for carrying out test runs. Roofing and flooring is happening at the Ameerpet station. The race against time is to make the first stage ready by the month-end so that the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) could be invited for safety clearance.
