
 Hyderabad Metro Rail and L&T Metro Rail authorities are planning to increase the frequency of metro trains to one every 6.5 minutes and also to run trains till midnight at least on weekends on the Nagole-Ameerpet-Miyapur stretch.“We are currently running 400 services everyday with 18 trains and by April first week, we are going to increase the number to 22 three-coach trains. Gradually, we will also reduce the time taken for doors to close to 10 seconds from 20 to 45 seconds once we ensure passengers get used to the system,” said Anil Kumar Saini, Chief Operating Officer, L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad on Wednesday.Chipped in HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy: “With Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) to be fully functional between Mettuguda and Begumpet along with the rest of the stretches between Nagole to Mettuguda (8 km) and Miyapur to S.R.Nagar (12 km), the speeds will only improve and increase frequency.” Street-level works too are likely to be completed by then.With CBTC not fully functional, frequency of trains between Ameerpet and Miyapur has been one every eight minutes whereas for trains between Ameerpet and Nagole it has been one for every 15 minutes. The duo was interacting with media persons during the metro ride to Miyapur where the first private two-wheeler bike taxi was inaugurated. “Daily ridership has stabilised at about 70,000 passengers which goes up to 80,000 passengers on the weekend. L&TMRH are happy with the patronage,” said Mr. Reddy.Mr. Saini said that 1.60 lakh smart cards were purchased since the launch and 50% of the passengers were going the digital way with 1,000 smart cards being sold every day. Such has been the demand that pilgrims to Calvary Temple have sourced 5,000 cards with demand for another 10,000 for travel with logo. Keolis MD Eric Moinier, who maintains and runs the metro, said citizens have been very disciplined. www.motorbikes.com is offering fuel filled bike taxi service with helmets at ₹4 per kilometre on flashing Aadhaar or driving licence.
