Hyderabad Metro logs into IT corridor

Hyderabad: Travelling to the IT corridor of Hyderabad just got easier with Governor ESL Narasimhan inaugurating the Ameerpet-Hitech City metro services on Wednesday from the Ameerpet metro interchange station. The long awaited 10-km stretch with nine stations, will establish the crucial metro rail connectivity to the congested IT/ITeS service areas of Hitec City, Madhapur and Gachibowli. The services to passengers commenced from Wednesday evening.

The Hitech City metro stretch with eight stations – Madhura Nagar, Yousufguda, Jubilee Hills Road no 5, Jubilee Hills Checkpost, Peddamma Temple, Madhapur, Durgamcheruvu and Hitec City – connects the already commissioned Nagole-Ameerpet stretch completing the Corridor-III of Hyderabad Metro, covering a distance of 27 km from Nagole to Hitec City.

Of the eight stations, only five will be accessible to passengers immediately as the stations at Jubilee Hills Road no 5, Jubilee Hills Checkpost and Peddamma Temple are expected to be thrown open to public in the next two months.

Traffic to ease

The traffic on one of Hyderabad’s most congested stretches is expected to ease out with the launch of services to Hitec City. According to authorities, the journey from Ameerpet to Hitec City will take roughly about 15 minutes, against 30-40 minutes by road, cutting down the travel time by half.

Initially, the metro trains on this stretch will run with a frequency of 12 minutes, which will gradually be increased to three minutes giving swift connectivity to the IT establishments in Cyberabad from other parts of the city. Jubilee Hills Check Post station, with a unique single level station unlike others and Madhura Nagar station being developed as ‘Women-managed Metro Station’ are a couple of stations on this newly launched stretch, which will stand out among all the other stations in the city.

Second largest in India

With the addition of 10 km to the already operational 46 km, Hyderabad Metro Rail becomes the second largest in the country only next to the Delhi Metro. According to officials, about 1.8 lakh passengers commute to different parts of the city on all routes every day. With the launch of the new extension, the number of people using the services is expected to jump soon.

