A 3 meters Tsunami hits Palu
 Damaged cars are seen in front of a broken house in Palu on Sept. 29 after an earthquake hit the area. JP/ Ruslan Sangaji
A collapsed bridge is pictured in Palu, Central Sulawesi, on Oct.1, 2018. JP/ Ruslan Sangaji
Officials carry body bags into a mass grave ahead of a funeral for quake victims in Palu, Central Sulawesi, on Oct. 1, 2018, after an earthquake and tsunami hit the area on Sept. 28. JP/Ruslan Sangaji
Residents make their way along a street full of debris after an earthquake and tsunami hit Palu, on Sulawesi island on September 29, 2018. Rescuers scrambled to reach tsunami-hit central Indonesia and assess the damage after a strong quake brought down several buildings and sent locals fleeing their homes for higher ground. AFP/ Muhammad Rifki
A man looks for belongings from his house after it was damaged in Palu in Central Sulawesi on September 29, 2018, following a strong earthquake and tsunami that struck the area. Nearly 400 people were killed when a powerful quake sent a tsunami barrelling into the Indonesian island of Sulawesi, officials said on September 29, as hospitals struggled to cope with hundreds of injured and rescuers scrambled to reach the stricken region. AFP/ Bay Ismoyo
A man attempts to ride his motorcycle through the mud in Palu in Central Sulawesi on September 29, 2018, after a strong earthquake and tsunami struck the area. Nearly 400 people were killed when a powerful quake sent a tsunami barrelling into the Indonesian island of Sulawesi, officials said on September 29, as hospitals struggled to cope with hundreds of injured and rescuers scrambled to reach the stricken region. AFP/ Bay Ismoyo
People view the damage to a beach hit by a tsunami in Palu in Central Sulawesi on September 29, 2018, after a strong earthquake and tsunami struck the area. Nearly 400 people were killed when a powerful quake sent a tsunami barrelling into the Indonesian island of Sulawesi, officials said on September 29, as hospitals struggled to cope with hundreds of injured and rescuers scrambled to reach the stricken region. AFP/ Bay Ismoyo
Motorists drive past a collapsed shopping mall in downtown Palu, Indonesia's Central Sulawesi on September 30, 2018, following the September 28 earthquake and tsunami. The death toll in Indonesia's quake-tsunami disaster nearly doubled to more than 800 on September 30, as ill-equipped rescuers struggled to reach scores of trapped victims, health officials resorted to mass burials and desperate residents looted shops for food and water. AFP/ Bay Ismoyo
A collapsed mosque is picrtured in Palu, Indonesia's Central Sulawesi on October 1, 2018. The death toll from the Indonesian quake-tsunami nearly doubled to 832 but was expected to rise further after a disaster that has left the island of Sulawesi reeling. AFP/ Jewel Samad
A boy (C) tries to get clean water from an underground water tank at a makeshift evacuation centre in Palu, in Central Sulawesi, on October 1, 2018, after an earthquake and tsunami hit the area on September 28. Mass graves were being readied on October 1 for hundreds of victims of the Indonesian quake and tsunami as authorities battled to stave off disease and reach desperate people still trapped under shattered buildings. AFP/ Bay Ismoyo
Earthquake survivors ride past a boat on a street in Palu, Indonesia's Central Sulawesi on October 1, 2018, after an earthquake and tsunami hit the area on September 28. The death toll from the Indonesian quake-tsunami nearly doubled to 832 but was expected to rise further after a disaster that has left the island of Sulawesi reeling. AFP/Jewel Samad
This picture shows Roa Roa hotel after it was hit by an earthquake in Palu, Indonesia's Central Sulawesi on October 1, 2018, after an earthquake and tsunami hit the area on September 28. The death toll from the Indonesian quake-tsunami nearly doubled to 832 but was expected to rise further after a disaster that has left the island of Sulawesi reeling. AFP/ Adek Berry
Earthquake survivors search for useable items among the debris in Palu, Indonesia's Central Sulawesi on October 1, 2018, after an earthquake and tsunami hit the area on September 28. The death toll from the Indonesian quake-tsunami nearly doubled to 832 but was expected to rise further after a disaster that has left the island of Sulawesi reeling. AFP/Jewel Samad
Hundreds of survivors of an earthquake in Palu, Central Sulawesi, including foreigners, climb the Hercules aircraft belonging to the Indonesian Air Force on Monday, three days after a 7.4-magnitude earthquake hit the region. The plane was heading to Makassar in South Sulawesi. JP/ Andi Hajramurni

A tsunami hit Palu, Donggala and Mamuju in Central Sulawesi on Friday evening, triggered by a 7.4 magnitude earthquake that rocked the province at 5:02 p.m. Jakarta time. The epicenter of the quake is about 27 kilometers northeast of Donggala and 10 km deep.
Prior to the earthquake, in the afternoon, Donggala regency was hit by a 6.0 magnitude quake that killed at least one and injured several others. The quake struck about 2 km north of Donggala at a depth of 10 km and lasted 10 seconds. The earthquake was followed by several aftershocks of magnitudes between 3.2 and 5. The main quake was felt in Donggala, Palu and Poso.
Soon after the evening quake, a tsunami warning for Central Sulawesi was issued at 5:07 p.m. The warning, however, was revoked around 30 minutes later.
Soon, pictures and video footage of buildings being hit by water went viral on social media. Confusion ensued due to a lack of information from the National Disaster Mitigation Agency (BNPB) as communications were cut off.
It was only later that the BNPB confirmed that a tsunami had occurred. Its wave reached 1.5 meters high and hit, among other structures, Palu Grand Mall and Baiturrahman Mosque, both located near the coastline.
Read also: http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2018/09/29/central-sulawesi-quake-what-we-know-so-far.html
A number of areas in Central Sulawesi have been hit by large amounts of mudflow following a 7.4-magnitude earthquake that jolted the province on Friday that also triggered a tsunami.
Petobo subdistrict in South Palu district, Palu, which is located 10-kilometers from the sea, has been struck by such mudflow.
It is feared that about 2,000 people in the subdistrict are dead, with homes having been dragged away by the mud.  
Read also: http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2018/09/30/quake-triggered-mudflow-flattens-palu-villages-thousands-feared-dead.html
