 [][][][Ernakulam district will be divided into four zones and brought under expert disaster fighting agencies as the district administration straps up for further surge in Periyar in the wake of increased water flow from Cheruthoni dam.
 A decision to this effect was taken at an emergency meeting of various agencies convened by District Collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla here at Aluva.
 As such, teams of Navy, National Disaster Response Force, Army, Coast Guard and fire and rescue personnel have been deployed at Aluva Manappuram, Keezhmadu, Chelamattam, and Pizhala. The actual pattern of deployment is yet to be finalised though it has been decided that two teams of Navy will be deployed along Aluva Manappuram.
 The Collector asked revenue officials to identify more potential relief camps anticipating further evacuation if Periyar water level rises further.
 The district administration has also scheduled an emergency meeting with Kerala Water Authority officials at 2.30 p.m. as pumping of water remains disrupted owing to high water turbidity. At a high level review meeting held earlier in the day, Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan has asked the district administration to restore water supply at least on alternative days.
 Meanwhile, the uncertainty over the possible water level rise in Periyar has put the Aluva Siva Temple administrative authorities in a quandary over the organisation of 'vavu bali' to propitiate ancestors. They have drawn up a crisis management plan that could be put into action with a notice of three hours.
 As of now, lighting arrangement has been completed, while questions remain over where to perform the ceremony as the 'bali mandapam' at Manappuram remains submerged. Also, there is no clarity as to where to put up the barricade as rising water can play spoilsport.
 \u201cWe hope to conduct the function along the Aluva Manappuram Road if permitted by the government authorities. But all depends on the water level,\u201d said temple administrator D. Jayakumar.
 The Ernakulam district administration is gearing up to evacuate more than 6500 families to safer places in anticipation of a flood situation like in 2013 following the decision to raise the shutters of the Cheruthoni dam to increase the discharge of excess water from the Idukki reservoir.
 Chief Secretary Tom Jose and Additional Chief Secretary P.H.Kurian told the media here on Friday that the decision to increase the discharge was necessitated by the rising water level in the reservoir due to heavy rains in the catchment areas. "We are expecting a flood situation in the downstream areas of the Periyar river upto Aluva. The prediction is based on the situation in 2013 when the dam shutters had to be opened", Mr.Jose said. , Idukki and Ernakulam districts have been put on high alert and emergency response teams are on standby. With the authorities shutting down the pumping stations in the Periyar river, the supply of drinking water to most parts of Ernakulam is likely to be rationed. , Mr.Jose said the Government had contacted the Civil Aviation Secretary and made arrangements for diversion of air traffic if the Nedumbassery airport had to be closed down in the event of floodwaters entering the runway. "Contingency plans are in place. We have been assured that the Thiruvananthapuram airport would be equipped to receive aircraft diverted from Ernakulam. We do not expect any travel issues due to the flood situation".\xa0\xa0 , Four additional teams of the National Disaster Response Force are being airlifted to Ernakulam from Guntur and Arakkonam to assist the civilan administration in evacuation and relief works. As many as 2751 families have already been shifted to 64 relief camps in the district. "The number of camps may go upto 210 as more people may have to be evacuated following the rising water level in the Periyar river", said Mr.Kurian. , Mr.Jose said units of the Army, Navy and NDRF were already involved in rescue efforts and restoration of roads blocked by landslips in Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Idukki districts. "The Government is on top of the situation", he asserted. , More than 17000 people across the state have been displaced by the floods over a period of less than 48 hours. As many as 260 relief camps have been opened at various locations to accommodate the flood victims. , \xa0][Please enter a valid email address.
 \nPrintable version | May 27, 2019 1:18:40 PM | https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Kochi/ernakulam-to-be-divided-into-multiple-zones-and-brought-under-the-cover-of-disaster-fighting-agencies/article24653408.ece\n, \n\xa9 THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD.\n]