Thiruvananthapuram: The police proved that they were not all about arrests, interrogation and investigation but helping lives and making people feel safe was also their cup of tea.
The first phase included rescuing those who were trapped by the floods in various places and the second phase focused on rehabilitation.
The police stood united to help people overcome the disaster providing them physical and mental support. Around 53,000 persons were rescued and taken to safe shelters by the police.
Many officers were deployed for the rescue and relief work in various places. They worked 24 hours on and off roads managing traffic, helping rescue workers and also providing them with necessities for relief efforts.
Before the dams were opened, the police relocated residents to safer places and made the evacuation easier.
The Police Mission  

Armed forces, women commandoes, Rapid Response Rescue Force (RRRF), local police, trainees from police training colleges and Kerala Police Academy were included in the rescue mission. The mission was carried out under State Police Chief Loknath Behera.
At first 35,000 police officers were deployed, later 500 more were added.
Work was coordinated by the IPS officers. The relief work was carried out at all flood affected districts under top police officials.
Police control rooms were setup in all districts. Apart from the district centres, special control rooms were opened at Pathanamthitta, Chengannur, Thiruvalla, Ranni, Aluva and Chalakudy.
The police used wireless communication at many places as the telephon networks became out of service.
258 boats of the coastal police and many private boats were also availed for the rescue operation. 2276 police vehicles were also used for the purpose.

More than 1 lakh calls recieved
The phone calls arriving at the stations were in large numbers asking for help and rescue. Following this, the police opened control rooms with 10 connections at the police headquarters apart from the district control rooms.
The police received more than 1 lakh calls asking for help which they handed over to the rescue operators and also consoled those who called. They also called as many people as they could who were available on phone at affected areas and provided them confidence.
A team including 30,000 officers were set up for providing security at the 3300 relief camps. 
The police even collected relief materials at the stations and handed over them to respective collection centres. They have been working extensively for cleaning and after-flood activities in the state.


The Kottayam police have released a video on things to keep in mind when people return to their houses after floods.