Maharashtra govt announces Rs 20-cr aid
Mumbai: The Maharashtra government announced today an immediate financial assistance of Rs 20 crore for the flood-ravaged Kerala.
Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, through a post on Twitter, said his government is releasing Rs 20 crore as an immediate assistance for Kerala's flood-affected people.
He said the state government is in constant touch with its Kerala counterpart for its requirements and necessary support since yesterday in the wake of devastating floods which have caused large-scale damage in the southern state.
Fadnavis appealed to citizens and organisations to come forward and contribute in all possible ways to help the people of Kerala.
He said the Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI) is contributing food packets worth Rs 1.5 crore, while the Rajasthani Welfare Association and the Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) are donating Rs 51 lakh each for the flood-hit population.
Around 11 tonne of dry food is being arranged for the flood-affected people of Kerala, of which 6 tonne would be dispatched by this evening, the chief minister said.
Bihar extends aid of Rs 10 crore
Patna: Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar today extended a financial aid of Rs 10 crore to flood-ravaged Kerala.
Kumar said that he was deeply distressed and saddened by the tragic loss of lives and large scale damage to properties caused by the incessant rains that have been lashing the southern state for the past few days.
No one knows better than the people of Bihar about the miseries caused by natural calamities during flood. I am sending a small contribution of Rs 10 crore from Chief Ministers Relief Fund, Bihar, for relief and rehabilitation works in the flood affected areas, Kumar wrote in a letter addressed to his Kerala counterpart Pinnari Vijayan.
I believe that under your able guidance and leadership, the people of Kerala would recover soon from the losses that they have suffered. I am confident the strength and resilience of the people of Kerala will carry the state through this catastrophe, Kumar added.
Haryana govt announces Rs 10 Cr aid
Chandigarh: Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said that the state government would provide financial assistance of Rs 10 crore to flood affected people and for rescue operations in Kerala.
He said that the people of Kerala had been facing heavy losses of life and property due to severe floods, and Haryana is with Kerala in this hour of need.
Gujarat announces Rs 10 crore assistance 
Ahmedabad: The Gujarat government today announced financial aid of Rs 10 crore for Kerala which has been ravaged by the worst floods in almost a century.
A Gujarat government press release issued today informed that chief minister Vijay Rupani had announced Rs 10 crore as financial assistance for Kerala.
"Expressing sensitivity towards people affected by devastating floods in Kerala, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has announced Rs 10 crore financial assistance for the state from chief minister relief fund," the government said in a press release.
"Government of Gujarat is with flood-affected people of Kerala and has announced Rs 10 crore financial assistance for the flood-hit state," Rupani tweeted.
Jhakhand CM announces Rs 5 crore aid
Ranchi: Jharkhand Chief Minister Raghubar Das today announced Rs 5 crore as assistance to Kerala for support of the flood-affected people there.
Expressing concern over the serious flood situation in Kerala, Das said that 3.25 crore people of Jharkhand are with natives of the Kerala in this hour of grief, an official release said.
Chandrababu Naidu speaks to Kerala CM, promises help
Amaravati: Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu today spoke to his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan over phone about the situation in the rain-ravaged state and assured him of providing all possible help in this hour of crisis.
A release from the Chief Minister's Office here said Naidu expressed grief over loss of lives and destruction of property in the monsoon fury.
Naidu assured Kerala that his state was ready to provide all possible help to it in this hour of crisis.
The Andhra Pradesh government had last night announced a financial assistance of Rs 10 crore to rain-ravaged Kerala.
Naidu told Pinarayi Vijayan that he would assist in mobilising more financial resources for rehabilitation work in Kerala.
Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh government today despatched a special rescue team comprising 66 disaster response and fire services personnel, a district fire officer, 12 motorboats and other equipment to Kerala.
A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel from Mangalagiri also left for Kerala by a special aircraft, State Disaster Management Authority Commissioner M V Seshagiri Babu said.


(PTI inputs)