Was it the right time to show rigidness and immaturity during deadly flood?
Are we really actualizing the character of Georgekutty in the Bollywood movie Airlift cast by Prakash Belawadi, during the most devastating and deadly floods in our state?  Some experiences and incidents during the floods justify the statement.
Malayalee film maker Raja Krishna Menon’s Bollywood film is based on the true story of stranded Indians during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990. The story narrates how Indians were evacuated from Kuwait- a record-setting humanitarian evacuation in the history of the world. The movie starred Akshay Kumar.
In the movie, characters of Lena and Prakash Belawadi depicted a Malayali migrant couple who were stranded in Kuwait. Prakash Belawadi played a pivotal role of a grumpy Malayali migrant, Georgekutty, throughout the movie. The cynical Malayali migrant who would trust no one, not even his rescuer, stood out even in that massive cast.

The ‘southie’ character in the movie can be related to many in the grim situation in Kerala.
It’s no surprise that we have found some ‘Georgekuttys’ during the flood.
Many stranded at their own house in the grim situation in Chengannur didn’t want to get rescued from flood. Instead they wanted supplies at their house. The frustrating incident happened in Chengannur, where flood had showed its deadliest face.
Their house was under water and people were on the terrace. But they still hesitated to leave their homes. Instead, they wanted the fishermen to deliver food and water to them.
This was a complaint that fishermen, Navy and NDRF were lamenting in many districts.
People somewhat considered the fishermen as delivery people. Some people were not cooperating with the rescue operations. Instead they were waiting for the water to recede.
An old woman in Chengannur frustrated the rescuers testing their limit of patience. She was alone in the house when the rescuers arrived. Ground floor was under water. As they prepared to carry her on a chair to rescue camp, she asked the rescuers to shift her TV to the upper storey. She then said the rescuers to save her sisters and relatives who were stranded nearby and comeback to her after an hour.
In another shameful incident, a stranded man flagged down the helicopter only to take a selfie with the personnel and said bye to the rescuer. The youngster waved his shirt to attract the rescuers’ attention in an isolated area. The helicopter was landed and the personnel approached him to assist him. He then took out his mobile phone and clicked a selfie and told the personnel that they can go.
In another experience the commandos of Air force were shocked to know the man they ushered in just wanted a free ride in the helicopter. The 28-year-old from Chengannur after being pulled in to the chopper revealed that he thought that he was being offered a lift. He later came up with an explanation that he misunderstood that personnel were asking him to guide them to show marooned areas in the locality.
These behaviors of people should prick the conscience that for what they give priority in their lives.
This flood is a waking call for everyone to behave more responsibly and maturely in future. Let’s hope at least before the next catastrophe we will learn good lessons and give priority for life over other things.


However, no one can dismiss the unity, love and kind we pulled up during the flood to help each other.