Kerala floods: Plywood industry in shambles
KOCHI: The recent flood has adversely affected the plywood industry in Perumbavoor, which was reeling under severe crisis due to many reasons including the introduction of Goods and Services Tax (GST). The current crisis is due to the shortage of availability of timber to manufacture plywood products since roads in southern districts got damaged in the flood. This has brought down the production drastically. Around 70 factories faced the wrath of nature as it got inundated for four days in August, leading to huge financial loss. Most of the timber comes from Idukki, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts. Plywood sector in Perumbavoor uses rubber wood and softwood. “Roads in these districts, especially in Idukki and Pathanamthitta, are badly damaged. Many rubber trees got uprooted in the heavy rains. Transporting timber to Perumbavoor is a difficult task now. This has caused shortage of raw material and brought down production from 12,000 tonnes per day to 6,000 tonnes. Currently, we purchase rubber wood locally,” said Shafeek P K, vice president, Sawmill owners’ and plywood manufacturers’ association. Each company buy timber paying Rs 7,000 per tonne. The catastrophe struck the sector when it started to show signs of revival in the three months prior to the flood. “The other major player in plywood industry is Haryana. They use poplar wood, a softwood, for manufacturing plywood products. Giving us hope, the price of poplar wood rose from Rs 3,000 to Rs 7,000 recently. The rise in price forced the factories in Haryana to sell products at our rates. But, the flood has shattered the hope and it will take time to overcome the current predicament,” said Jikku Jamal, who runs Bismi Timber Industries. The unit lost around Rs 52 lakhs due to floods, he said. As the water level rose to ceiling, machinery, raw materials and finished plywood got damaged. Now, moss has started to set in on the products and the face veneer used for glazing. “We import face veneer, which is a costly product, from Myanmar, Indonesia and China. We had two containers of face veneer which got damaged in the flood. Since we can’t dump it on the roadside we will use it to fire the boiler. Our loss touched around Rs 1.25 crore,” said Muhammad Shah of Ritz Wood Products. As water entered oil-fired boilers, more than 2,500 litres of oil, which needs to be replaced only in five years, got damaged. They would have to spend Rs 5 lakh on each boiler now. The majority of 70 factories which got flooded may have to pay a heavy price because they don’t have insurance cover. These factories now pin their hopes on the government promise of interest-free loans up to Rs 10 lakh. Download The Times of India News App for Latest City .