Flood-hit Kerala village gets a helping hand
KOCHI: The self-help groups of women at Muhamma village in Alappuzha who were hit by the recent floods were given a helping hand by a non-governmental organization. Ernakulam Roundtable 214, a Kochi-based NGO has donated 10 sewing machines to the group who had been producing environment-friendly cloth bags as an alternative to plastic bags. The campaign was initiated by Bhava India, a social enterprise that caters environmental friendly alternatives along with ATREE (Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology & Environment), a nongovernmental organization and Muhamma panchayat. Seven umbrella sewing machines and two electric sewing machines were also given to the flood-hit self-help groups. The organization, which is part of Round Table International, has been reaching out to flood-hit people in and around the district. "Sewing machines were the bread givers of these women who have been instrumental in making these cloth bags to create a better environment," said Sandeep Vasanth, chairman of Ernakulam Roundtable 214. "We are happy that we have been instrumental in reviving their environmental friendly works," he added. The cloth bags which are produced by the self-help group is an extension of the cloth to carry bag (C2C) campaign. As the part of the C2C campaign, the NGO partner of the project collect used clothes from students and handed them to self-help groups in Muhamma. At present, there are about 50 women in the village who make a living with the help of this initiative. The final products are marketed by Bhava under the brand name 'Milee' through various online shopping platforms. Bhava has also partnered with the upcoming Kochi Biennale to promote the cloth bags made by the self-help women groups. The environmental-friendly venture was initiated one-and-a-half years ago with the aim of protecting the Vembanad lake from severe plastic pollution. "This project aimed to spread environmental awareness among the people and, also to provide a practical alternative to the cloth to carry bag campaign," said CEO of Bhava India Subhas Warrier. "There are plans to create such groups at different places in the state. All such units will be focused on women in villages like these as the part of our women empowerment programmes," said Subhas. It is important to create awareness among the people living in the environmentally sensitive regions, he added. Download The Times of India News App for Latest City .