Kerala Floods: Need independent authority to deal with compensation claims, orders HC
KOCHI: The mechanism set up by the state government to deal with flood victims who haven’t received relief and rehabilitation benefits can only be a first-level option and an independent appellate authority is required for independent consideration and transparency, the Kerala high court said in an interim order. The order was issued by a division bench comprising chief justice Hrishikesh Roy and justice AK Jayasankaran Nambiar while considering 10 petitions seeking proper relief and rehabilitation measures for victims of the floods that ravaged the state in August last year. Amicus curiae Jacob P Alex had informed the court that an ombudsman-like mechanism to redress the grievances of flood victims denied benefits is required. The suggestion was made on the basis of a judgment of the Gujarat high court (Bipinchandra J Diwan and Others vs State of Gujarat and Others). Responding to the amicus curiae’s submission, additional advocate general Ranjith Thampan submitted that the government has already decided to provide a grievance redressal system headed by the additional district magistrate (ADM) or deputy collector as the first-level authority. If a person has further grievance, the district collector, who is the chairman of District Disaster Management Authority, can be approached, government informed. After considering the submissions, the court said in the interim order, “We, however, feel that the above mechanism set in place by the Government order dated 22.11.2018 can at best be the First Level Redressal Mechanism which is entirely constituted by the Government functionaries. But for the sake of ensuing independent consideration and also transparency, it might be appropriate to have an independent appellate authority functioning above the First Level Authorities, envisaged under the Government order dated 22.11.2018.” The court also ordered for extending the final date for approaching the first-level authority from January 10th this year to January 31st. Further, when the case is heard again on January 23rd, the government should inform the number of claims received by the first-level authority so that the court can have a realistic picture of the magnitude of the claims that needs to be addressed, the order stated.
