Kerala floods: Crowdfunding plan drowns in apathy
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The much hyped crowdfunding plan of the state government to rebuild the flood-ravaged state has failed to elicit any response yet from the public. This has now forced the government to go for an introspection. The idea, suggested by international consultant KPMG, was put into practice by the state government by launching a web portal www.rebuild.kerala.gov.in early last month with sector-wise projects open for the public to fund. This includes school rebuilding initiative, house rebuilding initiative, livestock replenishment and supporting the anganwadis that have been destroyed in the floods. The government has targeted Rs 25 lakh for each of the 114 anganwadis that have been fully damaged, but no single penny could be raised yet. The remaining sectors also are facing the same fate. More than 90% of the projects listed in the website for which funds are being sought from the public have drawn a blank, or could raise only meagre sums like a few hundreds. The maximum fund received for a project mentioned in the crowdfunding in the portal is for Government Higher Secondary School, Koipuram, Pathanamthitta, where one individual contributed Rs 17,000 against the set target of Rs 53 lakh. The government has estimated that the actual funds required for rebuilding and restoration of physical infrastructure alone would amount to Rs 1,588.60 crore. Buoyed from the response received for the chief minister’s distress relief fund (CMDRF) where people from world over donated liberally, crowdfunding was expected to evoke similar response as the portal also allows the donor to track the progress of the projects. “There are no plans to remove KPMG as the consultant as the service is offered free of cost , even though the crowdfunding idea has fallen flat . But as the government goes deeper and finer into the projects, we would need more expert consultancy, for which the government will have to pay. At that point, the government cannot depend on KPMG alone and new players will have to be roped in through a fair and transparent process,” a top government source said on conditions of anonymity. The government, meanwhile, has prepared a tentative plan that can be explored for the rebuilding of physical infrastructure. This includes loans from World Bank and Asian Development Bank (Rs 7,200 crore), rural infrastructure development fund (Rs 400 crore), Nabard infrastructure development assistance (Rs 2,500 crore) and Hudco (Rs 1,300 crore), cess from GST (Rs 1,000 crore), development funds of local self-government institutions (Rs 1,500 crore) and state’s plan savings (Rs 2,000 crore), that will add up to Rs 15,900 crore. Download The Times of India News App for Latest City .