Kerala floods: Hand-holding the flood-hit
KOCHI: One month into the deluge which displaced people and left a trail of destruction, the state government has opened itself to welcoming support from anybody who can contribute to Rebuilding Kerala. Reaching out to financial institutions, central agencies and well-wishers in the country and abroad, the state government now plans to use multi-pronged strategies to address the issues of livelihood and rehabilitation of affected families. Officials said the challenge lies in addressing the housing and infrastructure development keeping in mind the ecological issues when clearances will be sought for housing projects. "We are finalizing the reports of the survey on damages caused to housing and infrastructure and business loss. They will be ready by the end of next week," said additional chief secretary and state relief commissioner P H Kurian. The revenue department is all set to launch platform which will provide information on households and regions that need long-term financial support so that interested agencies or individuals can sponsor them. "There are a lot of people and organizations who want to participate in rebuilding Kerala and we would like them to join us. The platform is ready and will be launched after the chief minister returns. It will contain information of people whose houses have been completely damaged and people can sponsor or support the family joining hands with the state administration, he said. State government officials said convincing people to move out of their homes in vulnerable areas will be a difficult task and a hand-holding approach is being envisaged. We can force the law on government or poramboke lands but we can't use the same force on a person who owns a large tract of ancestral land who wants to rebuild a home there. We can't impose decisions on the people. A hand-holding approach is needed, especially when people want to rebuild in areas that are prone to disasters. The government has decided that the entire rebuilding will be done keeping in mind the environmental and ecological vulnerability of the region," Kurian said.
