Flood caused by excessive rainfall: IIT-Madras
IDUKKI: The opening of shutters of various dams in Kerala cannot be the reason for the floods that devastated the state in August, says a study conducted by IIT-Madras. The report prepared with the help of the department of biological engineering, Purde University USA and Indo-Germen Centre for Sustainability. There was a controversy that opening of the dams allegedly without taking proper measures caused the flood. But the report ruled out it and pointed out that extreme rainfall led to the flood. The study which reports the results and analysis of a modelling exercise using HEC-HMS to simulate and analyse the role of dams indicated that the role of releases from the major reservoirs in the Periyar River Basin (PRB)resulting in the flood havoc was less. The analysis suggested that reservoir operations could not have helped in avoiding the flood situation as only 16-21 per cent peak attenuation was possible by emptying the reservoir in advance, as the bulk of runoff to the flooding was also contributed by the intermediate catchments without any reservoirs to control. "The bank full discharge at Neeleswaram approximately being 4200 m3/s, it is apparent that the any reservoir operation could not have helped in avoiding the flood situation. Further, as the probability of EREs of this kind in the month of August in PRB is very small (0.6 per cent), any planned operation could not have helped in mitigating floods of such magnitude as the reservoir design might not have considered such events," said the report. On an average, the state received significantly high Indian summer monsoon rainfall during June 1, 2018 to 19 August, 2018 (2,346.6mm) which is roughly 42 per cent above the normal rainfall of the same period. Among the different districts of the state, Idukki received the maximum which is almost 100 per cent excess compared to the normal rainfall (3,555 mm) against the normal rainfall of 1,852 mm. During the first 19 days of August 2018 the state received 164 per cent above normal rainfall. The report also says that the current reservoir operation policy is based on water conservation to maintain the reservoir levels close to full reservoir level (FRL) throughout the monsoon to ensure maximum power generation. Meanwhile, KSEB deputy chief engineer Baburaj said the board had no doubt to the reason of the flood was the result of the extreme rainfall. "We got the IIT study report and it proved that the KSEB stand was correct. The Central water commission study report also said that dam openings did not cause the flood." The report was prepared by Sudheer KP, S Murthy Bhllamudi, Balaji Narasimhan, Jobin Thomas, Bindhu VM, Vamsikrishna Vema and Cicily Kurian. "We suggest revisiting the operating policies of the reservoirs considering the flood control also in addition to the current requirement. However, it may be noted that the success of flood management depends on the accuracy of prediction of extreme rainfall at sufficiently large lead times." Dr K P Sudheer, Department of Civil engineering IIT-Madras told TOI. 
