Read the latest on the Las Vegas shooting with Wednesday’s live updates. LAS VEGAS — Marilou Danley, the girlfriend of the gunman in the Las Vegas mass shooting, arrived at Los Angeles International Airport on Tuesday night and was met by the authorities, according to a law enforcement official. She was expected to be questioned upon her arrival, a federal official said. The authorities are scouring the personal and financial history of the gunman, Stephen Paddock, 64, just days after one of the deadliest mass shootings in the United States, which left 59 people dead — including the gunman — and about 500 others injured. The federal official said Mr. Paddock wired thousands of dollars to the Philippines and the F.B.I. was scrutinizing the transaction. Twelve rifles the gunman had in his hotel suite on Sunday were outfitted with a “bump stock,” a device that would enable them to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, an agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said at a news conference late Tuesday. • The police received the first call about shots being fired at 10:08 p.m. Sunday and Mr. Paddock stopped shooting at 10:19 p.m., around the time security guards approached his 32nd-floor luxury suite in the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino. • Mr. Paddock had placed one camera inside his hotel room, over the peephole facing the hallway, and two outside his room, including one on a service cart. “I anticipate he was looking for anybody coming to take him into custody,” Sheriff Joseph Lombardo of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said. • Jill A. Snyder, a special agent in charge for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, said that 47 firearms — rifles, shotguns and pistols — had been recovered from the hotel suite and at two Nevada properties Mr. Paddock owned. The weapons were purchased in California, Nevada, Texas and Utah, Ms. Snyder said. • Undersheriff Kevin McMahill confirmed the authenticity of leaked photographs of the deceased gunman, with a revolver by his side, and of his hotel suite, showing ammunition and rifles. An internal investigation has been opened into the release of the photos, he said. • Investigators also were looking into whether Mr. Paddock had planned an earlier attack in Las Vegas before deciding to target the concert on Sunday night, according to a law enforcement official who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. • Sheriff Lombardo said all but three of the victims had been identified as of Tuesday afternoon. These are some of their stories. Mr. Paddock had multiple semiautomatic rifles, weapons that fire a single round with each pull of the trigger. A fully automatic weapon, like a machine gun, will quickly fire round after round with a single pull of the finger, until the user releases the trigger or empties the magazine. Fully automatic weapons, tightly regulated by federal law since the 1930s, are much rarer than semiautomatic ones. Military versions of assault rifles often have a setting for fully automatic fire, but the versions made for the civilian market do not. The rapid fire heard on recordings of the Las Vegas shooting suggested a fully automatic weapon, and police officers called it that on radio traffic. But replacing a standard rifle stock, the part that rests against the shoulder, with a bump stock allows a semiautomatic rifle to fire at a rate comparable to a fully automatic rifle — much faster than a human user can pull and release the trigger. Bump stocks are legal and inexpensive, with some versions advertised for $99. A standard stock is firmly fixed to the rifle. But a bump stock allows the body of the rifle to slide a short distance back and forth, harnessing the recoil energy of each shot. The shooter does not move the trigger finger; instead, the weapon bounces, or “bumps,” rapidly between shoulder and finger. In 2013, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California proposed outlawing bump stocks, but Congress has not acted on her proposal. She proposed a ban again on Tuesday. Las Vegas police officers took cover and directed concertgoers to safety as gunshots rang out on Sunday, newly released body camera footage shows. “Hey, you guys, get down,” one officer shouted at bystanders between volleys of gunfire. “Go that way. Get out of here. There are gunshots coming from over there. Go that way.” Amid confusion about where the blasts were coming from, some people rebuffed requests to evacuate. “That’s fireworks,” one bystander shouted at officers. Another yelled expletives when told to take cover. As sirens blared and gunfire crackled, the video showed officers straining to find the source of the shots. “Hey, they’re shooting right at us, guys,” one officer said as he and his colleagues crouched behind a wall with their weapons drawn. “Everybody stay down, stay down.” “North of the Mandalay Bay, it’s coming out of a window,” another officer then says. The three-minute video released by the police on Tuesday was a compilation of footage from the cameras of several officers at the scene. “There’s multiple people shot up there,” someone says in one clip. “We see muzzle blasts from the Mandalay Bay,” someone, apparently an officer, said in another clip. President Trump on Tuesday called Mr. Paddock “a sick man, a demented man,” adding that “we are dealing with a very, very sick individual.” He also said that there would be some sort of discussion about gun legislation, but was not specific. “We will be talking about gun laws as time goes by,” Mr. Trump said as he prepared to leave Washington for hurricane-battered Puerto Rico. On Tuesday, congressional Democrats asked their Republican counterparts to establish a special committee to investigate gun violence, and called for them to retract legislation that would deregulate the sale of gun silencers. Read more from our reporters in Washington. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, rebuffed questions about potential legislative action during his regular news conference on Tuesday afternoon, saying that the massacre was being politicized. “Look, the investigation’s not even been completed,” Mr. McConnell said. “And I think it’s premature to be discussing legislative solutions, if there are any.” The president is scheduled to visit Las Vegas on Wednesday. The police continued to block some traffic along the southern end of the strip on Tuesday evening as they combed over the concert site, which was littered with lawn chairs, backpacks and other personal belongings fans left behind as they fled. The venue was effectively frozen in time, with the stage still intact just the way it had been when the shooting began, and signs beckoning “Come on in!” at the entrance. A handful of flowers and red heart balloons had been placed on the median. Most of the people killed in the shooting died on the concert grounds, the police said. Although many witnesses gathered in the intersection of Reno Avenue and Las Vegas Boulevard on Monday, by Tuesday they had been replaced with dozens of television cameras from all over the world. Recordings of police communications, captured by Broadcastify.com and some individuals, offer a moment-to-moment account of how officers responded to the first reports of gunfire. The police eventually pinpointed a suite in the Mandalay Bay hotel as the source of the shots, and they gathered in the stairwell just outside the gunman’s door. Explore how it unfolded with this timeline. At least 23 firearms, including a handgun, were found in Mr. Paddock’s hotel suite, according to the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department. Sheriff Joseph Lombardo of the Police Department said Mr. Paddock used multiple rifles during the attack. A federal law enforcement official earlier said two rifles were outfitted with scopes and set up on tripods in front of two big windows. Another official said that among the weapons were AR-15-style assault rifles. Both officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to divulge details of the investigation. Sheriff Lombardo said that Mr. Paddock brought at least 10 suitcases into his hotel room over a period of time. The sheriff said that Mr. Paddock fired through his hotel room door at security guards, striking one in the leg. The guard is still alive, he said. SWAT officers went in after the guard was shot. In addition to the weapons at the hotel, the sheriff said the police retrieved 19 firearms, as well as explosives, several thousand rounds of ammunition and “electronic devices” from Mr. Paddock’s home in Mesquite, Nev. The investigation into Mr. Paddock’s gun arsenal led investigators to New Frontier Armory, a large North Las Vegas dealer, distributor and manufacturer of firearms. David M. Famiglietti, the company’s president, issued a statement on Tuesday confirming that Mr. Paddock purchased “several” rifles and shotguns from the business last spring — all at the same time. It’s not uncommon for customers to do this to save money on background check fees, Mr. Famiglietti said. “The firearms he purchased did not leave our store capable of what we’ve seen and heard in the video without modification,” he said. “They were not fully automatic firearms, nor were they modified in any way — legally or illegally — when they were purchased from us.” Mr. Famiglietti said that nothing about Mr. Paddock raised red flags with the store’s sales clerk. On the contrary, according to Mr. Famiglietti, Mr. Paddock seemed to be interested in competitive shooting, asking the clerk a lot of questions about three-gun shooting matches — an increasingly popular sport in which players use a rifle, a shotgun and a pistol. “He just seemed like a normal guy,” said Mr. Famiglietti, whose store has been the target of hate mail, threatening phone calls and fake reviews since the shooting. “We obviously did not sell him these firearms with the intent that he would use them to hurt anyone in any way.” On Monday, a Mesquite, Nev., gun dealer, Guns & Guitars, acknowledged having sold two rifles and a handgun to Mr. Paddock. Like the purchases at Frontier, those were cleared by state and federal background checks. Mr. Paddock, 64, was described as a high-flying gambler who lived in a quiet retirement community and played golf. Officials said he had no significant criminal history and drew little attention to himself. Investigators are trying to piece together his financial history to search for clues that could help determine what set him off. Mr. Paddock often bet heavily at the major casino hotels, and his girlfriend, Ms. Danley, 62, who was out of the country at the time of the shooting, had worked for some of those hotels. They lived in Mesquite, Nev., 80 miles northeast of Las Vegas, and he also owned a home in Reno. Ms. Danley boarded a flight from Manila to Los Angeles on Tuesday, according to Antonette Mangrobang, a spokeswoman for the Philippine Immigration Bureau. The authorities, who met Ms. Danley at the Los Angeles airport, have called her a “person of interest” in the shooting investigation, which does not necessarily mean that she is suspected of committing a crime. The police estimated that when the shooting began, there were 22,000 people at the Harvest Festival, listening to Jason Aldean, the final act of the three-day event. Video of the shooting captured nine seconds of continuous, rapid fire, followed by 37 seconds of silence from the weapon and panicked screaming from the crowd. Gunfire then erupted again and again in extended bursts. Some concertgoers thought the noise was fireworks, but as it became clear what was happening, people fled, many of them unsure where the shots were coming from, or where they should go. “Everyone was running, you could see people getting shot,” said Gail Davis, one of the witnesses. “I’ve never been that scared in my life,” she added. “To have this happen, I can’t wrap my mind around it.” Video from the shooting showed Mr. Aldean running off the stage as the gunfire erupted. Within minutes, a police officer on the scene radioed to report cases of gunshot wounds “to the chest, legs, terminal arteries at the medical tent.” A few minutes later, an officer said, “We’re making tourniquets out of blankets, but I’m running out of blankets here.” 