NEW DELHI — One of India’s most prominent human rights activists made a surprising announcement this week, saying she would end a 15-year hunger strike against a law shielding the armed forces from prosecution. “I will end my fast on Aug. 9 and contest elections,” the activist, Irom Chanu Sharmila, said on Tuesday outside the courthouse in Imphal, the capital of the northeastern state of Manipur. The brevity of the announcement belied its import, nowhere more keenly felt than in fractious Manipur, on the border of Myanmar, where multiple insurgencies fighting for independence have been met by heavy military crackdowns. Ms. Sharmila, 44, has been the face of the fight against the Armed Forces Special Powers Act of 1958, a law that shields the armed forces from prosecution in the state and other conflict-ridden parts of India. Her fasting lent credence to critics of the law, who say it allows widespread human rights abuses and extrajudicial killings. Ms. Sharmila’s hunger strike has been waged in relative isolation. She has been held in judicial custody in a hospital in Imphal, where she has been force-fed through a tube in her nose to keep her alive. Though Ms. Sharmila gives interviews, the process of securing them can be onerous, or they are squeezed in during her brief respites from custody. She has been charged with attempting suicide, a crime in India. When newspapers want her statement, they often call other activists close to her, or her brother. Amnesty International has described her as a prisoner of conscience, and Human Rights Watch has cited her hunger strike in its repeated calls to repeal the law. She began her fast in November 2000, after a mysterious explosion in the village of Malom brought in soldiers of the Assam Rifles, who killed 10 people. She vowed that she would not end her fast until the Armed Forces Special Powers Act was repealed. But the law has remained. On July 8, the Supreme Court said that the use of “excessive or retaliatory force” by the armed forces in the state was not permissible, in response to a petition filed by Manipuri families over more than 1,500 cases alleging extrajudicial killings. Ms. Sharmila’s image — pale, wild-haired, with the perennial tube attached to her nose — has come to embody resistance to the law, magnifying her message beyond state borders. But because her appearances and interviews are relatively rare, Ms. Sharmila is still something of an enigma. That may change if she goes through with her plans to end her fast and join politics. Even her close associates appeared to be surprised by her decision, and some worried about losing her as a symbol. Babloo Loitongbam, a human rights activist and adviser, said that he tried to talk to Ms. Sharmila about her decision in the hospital corridor on Wednesday morning, but that a guard whisked her away. He said he understood that she wanted to end her hunger strike, but that “joining politics has a lot of risk.” He added, “If she gets defeated, the aura around her is going to go.” Deepti Priya Mehrotra, an academic who published a book about Ms. Sharmila in 2009, described her as simple and excessively gentle. “She’s such a media presence in her own way that people would want to try to use her,” she said. “It will be critical she remain part of that movement and representative of it as well.” Ms. Sharmila’s brother, Irom Singhajit, in an interview with The Indian Express, said that the decision came as a surprise, and that he had not told their mother about it. “She has been fighting, just as the rest of the family, in support of Sharmila and in the struggle to get AFSPA repealed,” he said, referring to the act. “I think she will be angry if she hears this.” But the toll of a life on the margins may have affected Ms. Sharmila’s decision. Local news media have reported that she is in a relationship with a British activist of Indian origin, and Mr. Loitongbam said that on Tuesday she had expressed a desire to get married. Sanjoy Hazarika, the director of the Center for North East Studies at Jamia Millia Islamia University, said that Ms. Sharmila appeared to be motivated by a desire to live a normal life. “I think a lot of it has to do with her personal wish to lead a life that is more in the open and less in the shadow,” he said, “more as a person than a persona, perhaps as a political figure than as an icon.” 