NEW DELHI — By licking a dab of honey from her palm, one of India’s most prominent activists ended a nearly 16-year hunger strike on Tuesday as she pledged to run for political office in her restive home state of Manipur. The activist, Irom Chanu Sharmila, was held for years in judicial custody, refusing to eat in protest of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act of 1958, a law that shields members of the military from prosecution in conflict-ridden parts of India. A judge granted her bail on Tuesday after she said she intended to end her strike, releasing her from the hospital where she had been force-fed through a tube in her nose to keep her alive. “Politics is so dirty and everybody knows it,” she told reporters at a news conference in Imphal, the state capital. For a woman whose fast largely spoke for her for more than 15 years, she articulated extraordinary ambition on Tuesday, announcing a run for chief minister of the conflict-scarred and corruption-ridden state of Manipur, which borders Myanmar. “I know nothing about politics and nothing about academia. My education is very, very low,” she said. But she called herself the “real embodiment of revolution,” offering herself as a rare honest political voice in the state. Ms. Sharmila, 44, began her hunger strike in November 2000, after soldiers killed 10 people in the village of Malom, near Imphal, in northeastern India. She was detained for attempting suicide, a crime in India. Hunger strikes as a tool of nonviolent political activism are common in India, employed most famously by Mohandas K. Gandhi, who regularly fasted as a means of protest during India’s struggle for independence. Ms. Sharmila’s strike raised the profile of the campaign to oppose the law, and Amnesty International has called her a prisoner of conscience, but the government has not budged on repealing the legislation. Babloo Loitongbam, a human-rights activist and an associate of Ms. Sharmila, said that Ms. Sharmila’s decision to end the strike was an attempt to bring her fight to a new arena. Dr. Lokeshwar Singh, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences in Imphal, the hospital where Ms. Sharmila was held, said that because she had been fed through a nasal tube, her body could tolerate only light solid food at first before working up to full meals. Though Ms. Sharmila is considered by many the embodiment of Manipur’s conscience, some wondered if she could handle the rough-and-tumble nature of India’s politics. “Politics is altogether a different game,” said Pradip Phanjoubam, the editor of The Imphal Free Press. “She is not prepared. She is inexperienced in politics. Politics in India is a different ballgame. You may have right call but still you may lose.” At Tuesday’s news conference, one reporter called her the “goddess of Manipur,” a nickname she rejected. “I don’t like that very identification,” she said. “I am a human being, and why should they remain keeping me in their own version? As a human being I feel everything. Why should they remain trying to isolate me?” Ms. Sharmila said that she did not know where she would live now that she has been released, but that that she might like to go to an ashram. She said she would file the necessary paperwork to run in the Manipuri assembly elections, expected to take place next year. Her next court hearing is on Aug. 23. In addition to protesting the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, Ms. Sharmila also called for the right to self-determination in Kashmir, the site of a longtime separatist movement. And she had a message for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Oh, Mr. Prime Minister, you remain indulged in violence,” she said. “Without this draconian law you can connect with us, you can govern us with fatherly affection, without discrimination.” Because of an editing error, the headline with an earlier version of this article misspelled part of the name of the activist who ended her hunger strike. She is Irom Chanu Sharmila, not Canu. 