City-bred engineer part of team that wins a science-tech Oscar
MUMBAI: Vikas Sathaye, who grew up in the Mumbai suburb of Mulund, was part of a team that received a scientific and engineering award at the Oscars 2018 Scientific and Technical Awards on Saturday. The ceremony, which was held in Beverly Hills, honoured the four-member team “for the concept, design, engineering and implementation of the Shotover K1 Camera System”, which the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences describes as a “six-axis stabilized aerial camera mount” that has an “enhanced ability to frame shots while looking straight down and getting a steady footage”. In his statement to the press, Sathaye said that in 2009 he joined a new company called Shotover Camera Systems in Queenstown, New Zealand, which is where he worked on the aerial mount. “One of the reasons to start this company in Queenstown was the natural beauty and stunning scenery which attract a lot of film producers and directors,” he said. “The camera mount gets attached to the base of a helicopter, which carries the camera and lens. Its primary function is to eliminate any vibration from reaching the camera and thus getting steady footage. The other function for the camera mount is to move the camera head in the desired direction as required by the camera operator, who sits inside the helicopter and uses a joystick to control the camera head movement,” Sathaye explained. The aerial mount or gimbal used for 3D aerial filming was named Shotover K1. Sathaye, who was born in Pune in 1967, grew up in Mulund where he attended NGP High School. “I never liked studying but I was a big fan of technology and gadgets,” he wrote in his statement. “My parents always encouraged me. I remember my dad used to get battery-powered toys for me and I liked to open them up and see what was inside.” After school, Sathaye completed a diploma in instrumentation from VPM’s polytechnic, Thane followed by a BE in electronics from VIT Pune, and an M-Tech in instrumentation from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. He taught at Pune’s Cummins College of Engineering for Women for seven years, during which he was sent to Italy for a project with Fiat for three months. It was this experience that inspired him to enter the field of embedded software technology. In 1999, he took up a job in Tata Honeywell as an industrial trainee after which he moved to New Zealand where he worked for a series of companies before joining Shotover Camera Systems. In his statement, Sathaye explains the various hurdles the team had to overcome to create the 3D gimbal or Shotover K1. “For the 3D gimbal, the two cameras and two lenses were to sit side by side and the biggest challenge for us was the weight,” he said. “The mechanical team started thinking about ways to reduce the weight, while the hardware engineer and I started thinking about how to boost the power to drive the gimbal.” In 2012, Sathaye decided to relocate to Adelaide, Australia where he has lived for the last five years. During that time, Shotover K1 has been used in many Hollywood blockbusters and in March 2017, it received a Technical Lifetime Achievement Award from the Society of Camera Operators after which, the company decided to recommend K1 for the Science and Technology Academy Awards. “As I was a part of the original development team, I was rewarded for my contribution in K1 software development,” explained Sathaye, adding that he would love to work on a similar project if he gets the opportunity.
