 [][][\nBJP supporters celebrate the party's good showing in the Karnataka Assembly elections in Bengaluru on May 15, 2018. \xa0 | Photo Credit: The Hindu ][With both the Congress-JD(S) combine and the BJP deciding to stake claim before the Governor to form the government, here are the reactions from political leaders on the verdict.
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday thanked voters in Karnataka for "steadfastly supporting" the BJP's development agenda and making it the single largest party.
 "I thank my sisters and brothers of Karnataka for steadfastly supporting the BJP's development agenda and making BJP the single largest party in the state. I salute the stupendous work of @BJP4Karnataka (state party unit) karyakartas who toiled round the clock and worked for the party," he said in a tweet.
 According to the latest results declared by the Election Commission, the BJP has won 97 and is leading in seven, for a total of 104. The Congress has won 74 seats and is leading in four, while JD has won 37 out of the total 222 seats.
 The Left parties, which have criticised the BJP for forming governments even after not getting a majority in Goa and Manipur, hoped that the Governor takes the constitutional way of installing a government that has a majority on paper.
 \u201cThe BJP is perfecting the art of losing elections and forming governments. It has become the trademark or USP of the ruling party,\u201d CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury told PTI.
 CPI General Secretary S Sudhakar Reddy also spoke on the same lines.
 \u201cAll dirty manipulations and horse trading can be expected from the BJP as usual. Had this wisdom of unity prevailed before the elections, the result would have been different.
 \u201cThe Congress should learn a lesson about flexibility on unity with other secular forces in the country,\u201d Mr. Reddy said.
 The Left parties also said that \u201cstate specific pre-poll alliances\u201d should be forged by opposition parties to defeat the BJP.
 Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, addressing a press conference here, cited "precedents" to emphasise that the post poll coalition of his party and JD(S) must be given the opportunity to take over the reins of power in Karnataka.
 "We expect Karnataka governor to invite JD (S)-Cong coalition which has clear majority to form government in the state. As per constitutional and legal provisions, the governor has no option but to invite the coalition," Surjewala said, adding their coalition has a clear majority with 115 seats.
 With the BJP emerging as the single largest party in Karnataka, party chief Amit Shah on Tuesday the state has shown trust in Prime Minister Narendra Modi\u2019s \u201cclean governance\u201d and rejected the Congress\u2019s \u201cdynastic politics\u201d.
 \u201cLike rest of the nation, the great land of Karnataka has shown its unwavering trust in PM Narendra Modi\u2019s clean, transparent and pro-development governance,\u201d Mr. Shah said in a tweet, as he congratulated the the BJP\u2019s Karnataka unit and party\u2019s chief ministerial candidate B S Yeddyurappa for their \u201crelentless\u201d efforts.
 \u201cThis mandate clearly reflects that Karnataka has rejected Congress\u2019s corruption, dynastic politics and divisive casteism,\u201d he said, thanking the people of Karnataka for making the BJP the single largest party.
 Had the Congress formed an alliance with the Janata Dal (Secular) before the Karnataka Assembly election, the poll outcome would have been \u201cvery different\u201d, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday.
 \u201cCongratulations to the winners of Karnataka polls. Those who lost, fight back,\u201d the TMC leader tweeted.
 According to the latest trends, the BJP is leading in 113 constituencies, the number required for a simple majority in the Assembly.
 \u201cIf Congress had gone into an alliance with JD (S), the results would have been different, very different,\u201d Banerjee tweeted.
 The ruling Congress is ahead in 53 seats, while former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda\u2019s Janata Dal (Secular) is leading in 37 constituencies.
 The results of Karnataka Assembly election are a "big setback" to Rahul Gandhi as the face of Congress and the opposition, Lok Janshakti Party president and Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Tuesday.
 "What could be the future of a person if he has no present. Unless the opposition or its alliance partners accept him (Gandhi), there is no future (for him) and now everyone is holding him responsible for the defeat in Karnataka and accusing him of not taking them onboard," Mr. Paswan told reporters.
 Asserting that the mandate is in favour of the BJP in Karnataka, he expressed confidence that it will form government in the state.
 "I have full faith that the BJP will form the new government in Karnataka as it has mandate in the state," he said.
 RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Tuesday asked the BJP not to give sermons on morality after the Congress and the Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) agreed to form a government in Karnataka.\xa0, "Is it not a fact that the mandate was against the BJP in Bihar in 2015? But the BJP with the help of Nitish Kumar became the ruling party last year. And it is today giving sermons on moral and ethical values in democracy," Mr. Yadav said.
 Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said people of Karnataka have rejected the "divisive, toxic and very negative" politics of Congress and voted for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's development thrust.\xa0, "The divisive, toxic and the very, very negative politics of the Congress party has been completely rejected and for which we owe a very big thank you to people of Karnataka. They did not go by the kind of polarisation the Congress wanted," the BJP leader said.
 Whether the Congress manages to form a government by supporting JD(S) or not, they shouldn\u2019t be criticised for trying. The BJP would be doing exactly the same thing if the positions were reversed, former J&amp;K CM and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted.
 "Karnataka has played an important role in realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream of a Congress-free India... We are moving in this direction... We believe that the two remaining states too will soon be free of Congress," Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said.
 The election results in Karnataka\xa0proved once again that people of this country favour the "together with all, development for all" mantra of the BJP\xa0over the "casteist and divisive politics" of the Congress ,\xa0Jharkhand Chief Minister Raghubar Das said.
 The CM attributed the party's "tremendous performance"\xa0 in Karnataka assembly polls to Prime Minister Narendra Modi\xa0and BJP president Amit Shah and the people of the state.
 Arunachal Pradesh Chief\xa0Minister Pema Khandu congratulated BJP president Amit\xa0Shah, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all BJP leaders and\xa0workers for the success in the Karnataka Assembly polls.
 "It is no mean feat that BJP has emerged as the single\xa0largest party in a state ruled by the Congress", Mr.\xa0Khandu said.][Please enter a valid email address.
 \nPrintable version | May 27, 2019 1:40:28 PM | https://www.thehindu.com/elections/karnataka-2018/karnataka-assembly-elections-results-leaders-reactions/article23894135.ece\n, \n\xa9 THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD.\n]