
The Bharatiya Janata Party is poised to win the Karnataka Assembly Elections after a hard-fought battle between the BJP, Congress and the JD(U). Here is what political leaders in the country have to say about the results: Former Jammu and Kashmir CM Omar Abdullah tweeted saying, "Et tu Karnataka,". "Please save this tweet for future reference. If I win it was all my charm & hard work. If I lose it’s all down to those blasted EVMs," he added. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee: "Congratulations to the winners of the Karnataka elections. For those who lost, fight back. If Congress had gone into an alliance with the JD(S), the result would have been different. Very different."Union Minister Smriti Irani attributed the success to "Amit Shah magic". "The Amit Shah magic works again. Toiling day and night, from district to district, booth to booth; Hats off to him! Under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi ji, our Party President Amit Shah ji creates history yet again in Karnataka," she tweeted.News agency ANI reported that Congress leader Ashok Gehlot hinted at a possible alliance with Janata Dal (Secular). Mr. Gehlot said that Congress was confident about winning the elections but the party was open to all the possible options. While commenting on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leading in the State, Mr. Gehlot said that these were initial trends and it is too early to say who will win. “We hope Congress will form the Government in Karnataka,” he added.Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam tweeted his congratulations. "I would like to share my joy on this momentous occasion & convey my congratulations on the resounding victory of BJP in Karnataka Election. Your dilligent & conscientious efforts not only yielded fruits in 15th state but also added another feather in your cap of glory, Narendra Modi. On this cheerful occasion, I wish to express my warm greetings and felicitations for the significant victory of BJP in Karnataka Assembly Elections, bellwethering a grand entry to South India."DMK working president M.K. Stalin greeted the BJP and its Chief Ministerial candidate B.S. Yeddyurappa on behalf of his party and expressed hope that the new government would ensure cordial ties with Tamil Nadu. In a Facebook post and a tweet, the Leader of the Opposition in the TN Assembly also urged the new dispensation to release soon Tamil Nadu’s share of water from the Cauvery river.“I believe the BJP, which is going to take charge, will not violate Tamil Nadu’s rights on Cauvery as per the Supreme Court order and strive for cordial ties with the neighbouring state,” he said.The Nationalist Congress Party said the BJP’s victory in Karnataka was “unbelievable” as the results were not in sync with the situation on the ground.Maharashtra NCP president Jayant Patil said the Congress was well positioned in Karnataka and there was no anti-incumbency against the Siddaramaiah government.“In this context, the BJP’s victory is unbelievable. There is a difference between what was in people’s mind and the situation that has emerged,” Patil told reporters here. He claimed that the image of the BJP and its chief ministerial candidate B S Yeddyurappa was “not good” because of the allegations of corruption. “The BJP’s reach in Karnataka was limited. This result should be analysed properly,” he said.Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje congratulated Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah. "History in the making as BJP emerges as the largest party in #Karnataka Assembly. Congratulate our inspiring leaders PM Shri @narendramodi and Shri @AmitShah ji who worked tirelessly to turn the tide. Karnataka has spoken! #KarnatakaElections2018," she tweeted.BJP National General Secretary Ram Madhav said the party's southward march had begun. "In Karnataka, TDP n Chandrababu Naidu have used all tactics to dissuade Telugu voters from supporting BJP. But in Hyderabad Karnataka where most Telugus live, BJP has increased its tally from 6 to 20+. People have rejected CBN’s politics. Our Southward March has begun," he tweeted.Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy said he hoped to see Mr. B.S. Yeddyurappa as the State's Chief Minister. "It looks like my early prediction for Karnataka polls of BJP majority is turning out be true. I hope to see my good friend Yeddiruppa as CM on 18th," he tweeted.Union Minister Suresh Prabhu said the verdict was "another stamp of approval for the leadership" of Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah. "Congratulations to all @BJP4India @BJP4Karnataka Karyakartas who put in untiring efforts for this victory!," he added.Union Minister Rajyavardhan Rathore told news agency ANI that this was the third straight defeat of Mr. Rahul Gandhi since he became party president. "This is the third straight defeat of Rahul Gandhi since he became President. He declared himself the PM candidate. Now if all opposition wants to unite toh hamare liye bhi ye theek hai, ki desh ki jitni gandagi hai vo ek saath hate (It's okay with us if the Opposition wants to unite, this way all the dirt can be removed in one go)," he said. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh congratulated BJP. "I congratulate the people of Karnataka for reposing their faith in the leadership of PM @narendramodi ji and @AmitShah ji by giving a historical mandate to @BJP4Karnataka.This victory is a precursor of the inevitable @BJP4India victory in 2019 elections," he tweeted.HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar spoke to ANI about the win, saying the BJP was winning the Karnataka elections hands down and the victory belonged to the people. He further said, “We are winning Karnataka hands down and the credit goes to PM and Amit Shah who have fought this election in unique way. This victory belongs to people. This is a big victory for the party. Congress is losing state after state and we are winning state after state.”Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani called the results the "electorate's message to Congress from Karnataka". "Heartiest congratulations to BJP4Karnataka and Shri BSYBJP for thumping victory in Karnataka Election. Mindless negativity is counterproductive. This is the electorate’s message to Congress from Karnataka. The Karnataka Election verdict is a reflection of good governance - a new approach to Indian politics given by Shri Narendra Modi. It is also a referendum to the organisational skill of BJP4India national president Shri Amit Shah. Congratulations!" he tweeted. (With inputs from PTI)
