Royal wedding: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry ask for charity donations instead of gifts

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have released a list of charities they would like wedding well-wishers to donate to in lieu of gifts.

Buying wedding presents for the average bride and groom can prove tricky, from knowing how much to spend to questioning just how many china sets one couple really needs.

Luckily, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have made it easier for anyone wanting to mark their nuptials by requesting just one thing – a donation to one of seven charities close to their hearts.

It’s a move which many will have predicted given that Markle was previously a Global Ambassador for World Vision and an advocate for the United Nations before her engagement, while the Prince is a patron of a number of charities he has set up with William and Kate. 

Making the announcement on Twitter this afternoon, Kensington Palace said: “Prince Harry & Ms Meghan Markle are incredibly grateful for the goodwill they have received since their engagement, and have asked that anyone who might wish to mark the occasion of their wedding considers giving to charity, instead of sending a gift.”

It goes on to reveal that the couple have personally chosen seven charities which represent a range of issues that they are passionate about, including sport for social change, women's empowerment, conservation, the environment, homelessness, HIV and the Armed Forces.

The full list of charities includes CHIVA (Children's HIV Association), Crisis, Myna Mahila Foundation, Scotty's Little Soldiers, Street Games, Surfers Against Sewage, and The Wilderness Foundation UK.

The announcement follows in the footsteps of Prince William and Kate Middleton who set up the "Royal Wedding Charitable Fund" for their wedding in 2011, which raised £1m for 26 charities.

They chose “little-known charities without existing royal patronage,” Clarence House announced in a statement.
Read more

    Meghan Markle and Prince Harry given custom scent for royal wedding

In comparison, the gifts bestowed upon Princes Charles and Diana for their wedding in 1981 seems somewhat excessive.

The royal couple received everything from an entire room of antique Canadian furniture to 20 handcrafted silver platters, an entire kitchen unit valued at £13,000 and a specially made king-size bed, the New York Times reports.

A selection of the presents also went on display at St James’ Palace for the public to view while a private list of gifts they requested from friends remained under wraps. 

