Kochi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at Kochi Naval Base in special aircraft by 10.15 am to inaugurate Kerala's first Metro Rail project in Kochi.
Dignitaries including Governor P Sathasivam and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan received the PM at the Naval Base. Union Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu also accompanied the prime minister.
Soon after his arrival at the Naval airport here from New Delhi, Modi drove to the Palarivattom station and took a ride from Palarivattom to Pathadippalam.    
    
After cutting the ribbon at the Palarivattom station, Modi shook hands with the chief minister and Sreedharan before proceeding to board the metro train.
    
During the journey, Modi waved at the crowd as Sreedharan and Kochi Metro Rail Ltd Managing Director Elias George interacted with him.
    
Union Urban Development Secretary Rajiv Gouba, Kerala Chief Secretary Nalini Netto and BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan also travelled with the prime minister.
    
After the train ride, the dignitaries left for the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium at nearby Kaloor for the formal inaugural function.
    
Considered the fastest completed metro project in the country, Kochi Metro, the flagship transportation infrastructure project of Kerala, will start its regular operations from June 19.
Claimed to be the country's first integrated multi-model transport system, it is expected to improve regional connectivity and ease the traffic congestion in Kochi, the commercial hub of Kerala.
The first phase comprises a 13-km stretch between Aluva and Palarivattom. 
The estimated completed cost of the metro touched Rs 5,181.79 crore.
    
A long-cherished project of Keralites, the foundation of Kochi Metro was laid by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on September 13, 2012.
    
It will improve regional connectivity and reduce traffic congestion. 

Venkaiah Naidu, Governor P Sathasivam, Pinarayi Vijayan, Leader of Opposition in Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala, Transport Minister Thomas Chandy, Kochi Mayor, Ernakulam MP K V Thomas, and DMRC Chief Advisor E Sreedharan were among the dignitaries who shared the stage with Modi during the inauguration.
Kochi Metro officials said introduction of a world-class metro system in Kochi would enhance the quality of life for the Greater Kochi metro area by improving regional connectivity and reducing overcrowding, traffic congestion, transit time, air and noise pollution.
The Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL), which was started five years ago with the objective of building and running a metro line, is trying to build itself as Kerala's urban transport solutions provider, officials said.
They said by being the first metro system in the country with an integrated multi-model transport system, Kochi Metro will not only give the city a much required face-lift but also provide end-to-end connectivity.
A unique aspect of metro stations will be the deployment of members of Kudumbasree - the women empowerment-oriented, community-based, poverty reduction self-help group project of the Kerala government- for managing the station operations.
Kudumbasree will provide a vast array of services from customer relations, crowd management, housekeeping and catering services, which once operational, will be the largest crew of women to be employed by any metro.
Besides, every metro station has been designed on a specific theme around Kerala culture and geography.
KMRL has also included the LGBT community in its operations along with Kudumbashree, thus becoming the first organization to appoint transgenders as per the state government's transgender policy.


(With inputs from PTI)