
Amidst much excitement, the Metro finally began its run in the city. A familiar sight in the city’s landscape for the past decade, its inauguration has led to much rejoicing by the citizens, eager to explore the new mode of transport. Chandana Siripuram, a banker who took the ride from Ameerpet to Miyapur says, “It was an amazing experience as I’ve been hearing about the Metro for so long that a ride on it appeared surreal. The only hitch I faced was while purchasing my ticket, the card didn’t work, but it was quickly resolved by the helpful officials. Apart from that, the experience was joyous, the interiors are comfortable and everything moved like clockwork.”Not only the commuters but even people whose establishments line the Metro route are excited about it. Suresh Goleccha, who owns a cloth store adjacent to the Kukatpally station says that though he had seen the trains run during trails, now that it is finally open, the reality of the Metro has finally sunk in. He says, “The crowd during the inauguration resembled that of a political rally. There is so much buzz around it, but we are still getting used to seeing the trains zoom past us.”It is not only the trains which are getting good reviews from commuters but also the stations and facilities available. Hari Priya, a former law assistant to the Hyderabad Metro Rail says that it is on par with the Singapore Metro. She explains, “Having travelled in the Singapore Metro, it is evident that the city’s version is genuinely world-class. Be it the rail or the station, they provide a smooth ride for everyone. Having been a part of the trial runs, I can say that it has been tested over and over again both by L&T, as well as the government. The ambience, safety and security have all been accorded the importance they deserve.”The hype surrounding the Metro has spilled over to the neighbouring areas of the city as well. Madhu Goud has come in from Sangareddy to take a ride on the first day so that he is the first amongst his friends to take a selfie in the Metro! The youngster who runs a mobile store says, “I’ve been seeing the news since many days and most of it is about Metro. I wanted to get a picture on the first day itself and have come to Hyderabad. It looks very clean and I hope it remains this way. They should extend the line to Sangareddy too.”The excitement at the stations resembles that of a carnival — eager families on an outing, groups of friends clicking pictures and an overall air of enthusiasm. Riding a wave of immense expectations and hope that it will reduce the traffic snarls, the Hyderabad Metro is an idea whose time has finally come. While it remains to be seen how it will go from here, its inauguration has received a universal thumbs-up.
