

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES-2017) in Hyderabad in the presence of United States President Donald Trump’s Adviser Ivanka Trump and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The summit is a a gathering of hundreds of budding, ambitious and well-known entrepreneurs as well as investors and supporters of the eco-system.






Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Adviser to the President of the United States Ivanka Trump gesture while inaugurating the Global Entrepreneurship Summit-2017, in Hyderabad on Tuesday.
 






 Published at 9.00 p.m.Jerome Powell's confirmation hearing






Jerome Powell, President Donald Trump's nominee for chairman of the Federal Reserve, is sworn in during a Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington.  
| Photo Credit: AP 





 A member of the Fed’s board since 2012, Jerome Powell was nominated by President Donald Trump to succeed Janet Yellen after her four-year term as chair ends in February. Mr. Trump decided against offering Ms. Yellen a second term. Earlier in the day, Mr. Powell said, if confirmed as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, he would expect the Fed to continue raising interest rates gradually to support its twin goals of maximum employment and stable prices. Under his leadership, Mr. Powell also said, the Fed would consider ways to ease the regulatory burdens on banks while preserving the key reforms the Congress passed to try to prevent another financial crisis.Published at 8.00 p.m.Macron promises new France-Africa ties






French President Emmanuel Macron delivers a speech as Burkina Faso’s President Roch Marc Christian Kabore looks on, at the Ouagadougou University, in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
 
| Photo Credit: Reuters 





 France's President Emmanuel Macron told African youths on Tuesday that he belonged to a new generation of French leaders who would build partnerships with the continent rather than tell it what to do. But a youth protest against him, stones pelting one of his delegation's vehicles and a botched grenade attack on French troops hours before his arrival in Burkina Faso's capital Ouagadougou showed the hostility that still lingers after decades of an often tense France-Africa relationship. Mr. Macron was also subjected to rowdy student questions at the university after his speech in Burkina Faso's capital Ouagadougou, and was sometimes left fruitlessly hushing as he struggled to get his answers heard above the crowd.Published at 7.00 p.m.Kenya President sworn in






Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta (centre), accompanied by his wife Margaret (right), is sworn-in during his inauguration ceremony at Kasarani stadium in Nairobi, Kenya.
 
| Photo Credit: AP 





 Kenyatta is being sworn in on Tuesday, ending a months-long election drama that saw the first vote nullified by the country's top court and the second boycotted by the opposition. The Supreme court judge David Maraga is on the left, and Chief Registrar of the Supreme court Anne Amadi is second from the left.Published at 6.00 p.m.German cities call on Merkel to release diesel pollution funds






Acting German Chancellor Angela Merkel talks with German Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks and Head of Federal Chancellery Peter Altmaier before the meeting with mayors at Chancellery in Berlin, Germany.  
| Photo Credit: Reuters 





 German cities will call on the government to immediately release 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) of promised funding to cut diesel pollution and help them avert a potential ban on diesel vehicles. Pressure is growing on Germany to enforce Clean Air limits introduced in the European Union in 2010. Ninety cities, including Berlin and Munich, could face penalties for having nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels in excess of the permitted limits, according to the DUH environmental lobby. German municipalities and states are meeting Chancellor Angela Merkel and Cabinet Ministers for second “diesel summit" on Tuesday. Just before a September election, Ms. Merkel's government announced it would double funding allocated to curbing excess NO2 levels, but nearly three months later the intended recipients are still waiting.Published at 5.30 p.m.Pope sidesteps Rohingya crisis in Myanmar






Pope Francis shakes hands with Myanmar’s State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi during a meeting with members of the civil society and diplomatic corps in Naypyitaw, Myanmar.  
| Photo Credit: Reuters 





 Pope Francis called for respect for rights and justice in a keenly-watched address in Myanmar on Tuesday, but refrained from any mention of the Rohingya, or allegations of ethnic cleansing that has driven huge numbers of the Muslim minority from the country. Sharing a stage with Myanmar’s leader Aung San Suu Kyi in the capital Naypyidaw, he did not address the Rohingya crisis head-on, instead tip-toeing around the unfolding humanitarian emergency. Peace can only be achieved through “justice and a respect for human rights”, he said in a broadly-framed speech that also called for “respect for each ethnic group and its identity.”Published at 5.00 p.m.'Hadiya back to college'






Hadiya alias Akhila, the 24-year-old from Kerala at Coimbatore airport on Tuesday. She is on the way to Salem, where she is pursuing her homoeopathy internship.
 
| Photo Credit: M. Periasamy 





The Supreme Court on Monday ordered that Hadiya should be accompanied by police in plainclothes, who would see that she reached her college safely in Salem. The court asked the Tamil Nadu police to make arrangements to deal with any security problems she may encounter in Salem. Read morePublished at 4.15 p.m.'Nurses strike'






Contract nurses during the second day of the sit-in protest on Anna Salai demanding that the health department deliver on its assurances.  
| Photo Credit: V. Ganesan 





  Published at 3.30 p.m.'Modi takes first ride'






Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accompanied by Telangana Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao during the Metro ride in Hyderabad on Tuesday.  
| Photo Credit: Special Arrangement 





 Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the first leg of the Hyderabad Metro rail project from Miyapur Metro rail station on Tuesday. The 30-km-long first phase of the project between Miyapur and Nagole has 24 stations. Its commercial operations will start on Wednesday.Published at 2.30 p.m.'Eviction drive'






A man reacts after police demolished his home during an eviction drive inside the Amchan Wildlife Sanctuary in Guwahati on Tuesday, November 27, 2017.
 
| Photo Credit: Ritu Raj Konwar 





The Guwahati Wildlife Division, civic administration and the police on Tuesday launched a drive to remove illegal encroachments in the southern range of the Amchan Wildlife Sanctuary, after reports of 30 percent encroachment by human habitation. Police used bulldozers and the elephants in a show of force to demolish the houses.Published at 2.00 p.m.'Teen entrepreneur'






13-year-old Hamish Finlayson, Moonshot Industries global Pty Ltd, Australia, at the Global Entrepreneurship Summit 2017, in Hyderabad on Tuesday.
 
| Photo Credit: G. Ramakrishna 





The wonder boy and the youngest entrepreneur, Hamish Finlayson was the cynosure of all eyes at the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Hyderabad here on Tuesday. The 8th edition of  Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES-2017), which is coming for the first time to South Asia, will serve as a forum to celebrate and nurture entrepreneurship and provide opportunities to network.Click here for live updates






Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Adviser to the U.S. President Ivanka Trump, Telangana Chief Minister Chandrashekhar Rao and Telangana Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan arrive to inaugurate the Global Entrepreneurship Summit 2017, in Hyderabad on Tuesday.  
| Photo Credit: G. Ramakrishna 





 






The road leading to HICC, venue of the Global Entrepreneurship Summit 2017, illuminated with posters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Ivanka Trump, Adviser to the US President, in Hyderabad on Monday.
 
| Photo Credit: K.V.S. Giri 





 Published at 1.00 p.m.'TTV in Tiruchi'






Dissident AIADMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran addresses media persons in Tiruchi on Tuesday.
 
| Photo Credit: A. Muralitharan 





T.T.V. Dhinakaran addressing the media in Tiruchi.  Three AIADMK Rajya Sabha members – A. Navaneethakrishnan, Vijila Sathyananth and N. Gokulakrishnan – who were with dissident leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran, on Monday met Chief Minister and party Co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami at his house and pledged their support to him.Published at 12.30 p.m.'Modi in Hyderabad'






Students waiting to receive Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Begumpet airport in Hyderabad on Tuesday.  
| Photo Credit: G.R. Rao 





Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao flagged off the Hyderabad Metro Rail project for the 30-km stretch from Miyapur to Nagole through the Ameerpet interchange station at Miyapur station. Read morePublished at 11.30 a.m.'Residue burning'






Residue burning is causing air pollution near the banks of Yamuna river in New Delhi on Tuesday, November 28, 2017.  
| Photo Credit: R.V. Moorthy 





 In a bid to tackle air pollution resulting from crop burning, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on November 22, 2017  asked the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to come up with ‘workable solutions’ along with the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). Read morePublished at 11.00 a.m.Indonesia volcano






A general view shows Mount Agung erupting seen from Kubu sub-district in Karangasem Regency on Indonesia's resort island of Bali on November 28, 2017.  
| Photo Credit: AFP 





 Indonesian authorities extended the closure of the international airport on the resort island of Bali for a second day over fears of a volcanic eruption.Published at 10.00 a.m.Delhi fire






Fire personnel douse the fire on buses parked at the Timarpur bus parking in New Delhi on Tuesday.  
| Photo Credit: R.V. Moorthy 





 Published at 9.00 a.m.Dolphins wash ashore






Spotted dolphins being washed ashore at Punnaikaayal Beach in Thoothukudi district. It is yet to be known why the mammals lost their direction.
 
| Photo Credit: A. Shaikmohideen 





Spotted dolphins were washed ashore at Punnaikaayal Beach in Thoothukudi district. There is no clarity on why these animals were being washed ashore. Of the 40 spotted dolphins beached along Punnaikaayal beach on Monday night, 36 were successfully pushed back to the sea, thanks to the immediate intervention by the local fishermen while the remaining 4 perished due to injuries.Published at 7.00 a.m.Ivanka Trump






Officials welcoming US President Donald Trump's daughter Ivanka Trump at the Hyderabad International Airport in the early hours of Tuesday morning.
 
| Photo Credit: Special Arrangement 





US President Donald Trump’s Adviser and daughter Ivanka Trump is in India to attend the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES-2017), a gathering of hundreds of budding, ambitious and well-known entrepreneurs as well as investors and supporters of the eco-system.


$(document).ready(function () {
// Removing empty paragraphs first
$("#content-body-14266949-21014360 p").filter(function () {
var html = $.trim($(this).html());
if (html == '' || html == '&nbsp;')
return true;
}).remove();
// Taking a subset of paragraphs using offset and maximum
var offset = 1;
var max = -1;
if (offset > 1) {
$("#content-body-14266949-21014360").children().slice(0, offset - 1).remove();
}
if (max > -1) {
$("#content-body-14266949-21014360").children().slice(max).remove();
}
// Show dateline field at the beginning of the first paragraph
var showDateline = true;
var datelineStr = "";
if (offset <= 1 && showDateline == true && datelineStr != "") {
var firstChild = $("#content-body-14266949-21014360").children().get(0);
if ("P" == firstChild.nodeName.toUpperCase()) {
$(firstChild).prepend("<span>" + datelineStr + " - </span>");
}
else {
$(firstChild).before("<span>" + datelineStr + "</span>");
}
}
});

