‘CSK has several match-winners’ 


What makes Chennai Super Kings the most consistent team in the IPL? The side has now made its seventh final in nine appearances, has won the title twice.

The Hindu caught up with CSK’s bowling coach L. Balaji, a key seamer for the side in its early years, for his views on the qualities that drive this popular Chennai outfit.

The former India paceman said, “To start with, there have always been several match-winners in the side, with bat and ball.”

Balaji elaborated, “Now you have Dhoni, Raina, Bravo, Rayudu, Watson, Faf du Plessis, Harbhajan, Ngidi and any of them can win you the match. Previously, we had Hayden, Hussey and Muralitharan. Along with team effort, you have individual brilliance.”

And then there are several leaders within the group. Balaji observed, “This has been CSK’s hallmark. Apart from skipper Dhoni, you have du Plessis, Bravo, and Watson, all of whom will offer their views, take responsibility and guide the youngsters. Then you have Hussey [batting coach], who always shares his knowledge.”

Dhoni, with his equanimity, enormous ability and leadership skills, has been such an influential figure. “Off the field, he allows his players to chill without losing focus. On the field, he is a fantastic reader of the game and gets the best out of his men,” Balaji said.

“A lot has been said on how he is able to finish games with the bat and he is so calm. But what has always struck me about Dhoni is his ability to make you relax mentally. Even when I bowled in the death overs, I don’t remember Dhoni speaking to me much. He would just indicate subtly what he wanted, never put pressure on the bowlers. And his field placements were exceptional and innovative. He is an instinctive captain.”

Like a family

CSK was more like a family under Dhoni, Balaji said.

“You have to be in the side to experience this. There is harmony, the management backs the cricketers, the players are happy for each others’ success and Dhoni treats every player equally and they are given the freedom to express themselves.”

Asked to pick one quality that underlined CSK, Balaji replied, “Resilience. It’s a tough side, doesn’t accept defeat till the last ball, wins from impossible situations. CSK was out of IPL for two years and look at the way it has come back.”

