The death on Wednesday of Stephen Hawking, the iconic physicist and author, at age 76 set off tributes from Times readers. Many wrote emotionally about Dr. Hawking on social media and in our obituary’s comments section, sharing personal anecdotes about meeting him and describing why his work and life mattered to them.  “He will be sorely missed in the physics community. However, he will also be missed in the disabled community. He was an inspiration to others, demonstrating what could be done despite a horribly debilitating disease,” B.S. in Woodland, Calif., wrote. “He lives on as all great philosophers do in his theories and writing. Generations will continue to know and appreciate him. Much gratitude to those who cared for him and supported him day to day. We all grieve with you and celebrate his life,” West wrote. “Here I am, at the end of my life, and Stephen Hawking died last night. I am still weeping and I do not know why. I never met the guy. I never approached his level of dignity. But when I consider his life, I am the little boy in polio braces who wanted no one's pity,” Brian Prioleau in Austin, Tex., wrote. Dennis Overbye, a New York Times science reporter, who wrote the obituary, answered readers’ questions and shared some insights on Dr. Hawking’s work and personality in the Reader Center Facebook group, where readers also paid tribute.  “Dr. Stephen Hawking has really inspired me. He gives me the impetus to keep going through hard times and reach higher. He showed me the beauty in math. I think he has inspired many generations. He will be missed,” Vanessa Van Decker wrote. Mr. Overbye’s insights come, in part, from several meetings with Dr. Hawking, including the one pictured above, in 1978 on the steps of the Royal Society in London.  “Beautiful obit. I want to know more about Mr. Hawking's thoughts on artificial intelligence, science/technology and the future of our planet. Was he fundamentally optimistic about where we're headed?,” Leslie Feinzaig asked.  “Hawking was an unflagging supporter of interplanetary exploration because as an astronomer he knew that the Sun would keep getting hotter and boil the oceans, if we didn't blow ourselves up or unleash a global pandemic first,” Mr. Overbye responded. “He was very worried and thought it could go badly for us humans if we weren’t careful. He had said that we needed to establish an outpost on Mars within 100 years if we wanted to survive. However, that prediction is worth about what you just paid for it. Gravity was his forte, and math, not politics or the future,” he wrote to another reader with a similar question. Another Facebook group member, Nastya Malenko, asked Mr. Overbye a few questions: “I've always been amazed by the life path and incredible mind of Dr. Hawking. He got me interested in physics, which I never thought was possible. I'm familiar with his scientific work, but not his personality. So, I have a few questions, the basic one — What do you think helped him to keep the positive attitude through countless obstacles? Was the curiosity of his mind apparent in conversations, if so in what ways?” Mr. Overbye wrote: “As I tried to emphasize in various places over the years Hawking was one of the most stubborn people who ever lived. He grew up in an intellectual family where dinner table conversations were wide ranging and intimidating to newcomers.” Applications for our Facebook group are currently closed, but check back at nytimes.com/readers for other opportunities to get involved. 