Before reading the article: Look through the slide show below, of the British physicist Stephen Hawking’s life, and read the captions.  What did you know about him already? What was new information, and what more do you want to know? Now, read the first 23 short paragraphs of the obituary, “Stephen Hawking Dies at 76; His Mind Roamed the Cosmos.” Stop reading when you reach the paragraph that begins: “Stephen William Hawking was born in Oxford, England, on Jan. 8, 1942 — 300 years to the day, he liked to point out, after the death of Galileo, who had begun the study of gravity.” Then, answer the following questions: 1. What details does the first paragraph give about Dr. Hawking, and why was he considered an emblem of human determination and curiosity? 2. What did Michio Kaku, a professor of theoretical physics at the City University of New York, say about Dr. Hawking, and why? 3. What was the topic of Dr. Hawking’s book published in 1988, and what will he be remembered for scientifically? 4. What was Dr. Hawking told in 1963, when he was a graduate student, about his health? What physical limitations did Dr. Hawking experience? 5. How did Dr. Hawking’s work lead to a turning point in modern physics, and what did Dr. Hawking say about it? 6. Why did the discovery of Hawking radiation transform black holes from destroyers to creators, according to the article? 7. What are some examples from the excerpt you read of the ways Dr. Hawking pushed the limits in his intellectual, professional and personal lives? Finally, tell us more about what you think: The Times reporter Dennis Overbye addressed Dr. Hawking’s indomitable spirit in “Stephen Hawking Taught Us a Lot About How to Live”: He was the kind of guy who showed up at his own 60th birthday party with a broken leg after flipping his wheelchair trying to take a street corner too fast, a guy whose eyes lit up with a mischievous grin at good and bad jokes. He mingled with kings and presidents and the Dallas Cowboy cheerleaders. He had hoped someday to take a trip to the edge of space on Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic spaceship. He preferred to be called Stephen. He was proud of being a family man. “His sense of humor was legendary,” said Kip Thorne, his old friend and recent Nobel laureate from Caltech, with whom he collaborated on the seeds of what would become the movie “Interstellar.” “When he started a sentence, laboriously on his computer, I never knew whether it would end in a deep pearl of wisdom or an off-the-wall joke,” Dr. Thorne said in an email. The Times article “Stephen Hawking, in His Own Words” highlights Dr. Hawking’s most famous quotations — both the humorous and the wise. Here are four: “Remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see and wonder about what makes the universe exist. Be curious. And however difficult life may seem, there is always something you can do and succeed at.” “Life would be tragic if it weren’t funny.” “My advice to any heartbroken young girl is to pay close attention to the study of theoretical physics. Because one day there may well be proof of multiple universes. It would not be beyond the realms of possibility that somewhere outside of our own universe lies another different universe. And in that universe Zayn is still in One Direction. This girl may like to note that in another possible universe she and Zayn are happily married.” “I want to show that people need not be limited by physical handicaps as long as they are not disabled in spirit.” Look through the complete list and decide: Which do you like best, and why? What will you remember most about Dr. Hawking, and why? For other related coverage, see “6 Memorable Cultural Moments Inspired by Stephen Hawking.” 