NEW DELHI — As the chaos surrounding Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ban on high-currency bills entered its ninth day, the government moved Thursday to address some of the problems amid signs of growing impatience with the slapdash way the policy seems to have been carried out. Since the move was announced, retail commerce has slowed, farmers who deal almost exclusively in cash have had no buyers and people have waited in long lines at banks and ATMs in hopes of getting a paltry amount of the new notes the government is in the process of printing. To deal with the continuing liquidity crunch, the government on Thursday cut the exchange limit to 2,000 rupees, or about $30, from 4,500 rupees, or about $66, effective Friday, so that the cash would be more widely distributed. This week, banks began using indelible ink to mark fingers of people who had exchanged old notes to weed out repeated exchanges. In a nod to the wedding season here, the government said Thursday that families celebrating a marriage could withdraw 250,000 rupees, or about $3,700, from their bank accounts for the event. Farmers gained some relief, with permission to withdraw 25,000 rupees a week against their crop loans, the government said. Traders were allowed withdrawals of 50,000 rupees a week, allowing them to pay for labor and produce at wholesale markets. The government was also racing to calibrate ATMs with the newly issued 2,000 rupee notes and smaller currency. Mr. Modi has begun to come in for criticism, after being afforded a remarkable grace period. Politicians clashed over the move, and Parliament was adjourned amid raucous debates over the plan, which was intended to drain unaccounted cash, so-called black money, from the economy to cut down on rampant corruption and tax avoidance. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of Delhi and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of West Bengal joined forces in opposition to the policy on Thursday, attending a rally against the decision in New Delhi and demanding that it be rolled back in three days. In a televised interview, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley expressed regret over the inconvenience but said it was unavoidable because “we have to withdraw currency which is used for generating black money.” Mr. Modi announced on Nov. 8 that India’s highest-value bills, the 1,000 and 500 rupee notes, worth about $15 and $7.50, would cease being legal tender the next morning. The bills represent more than 80 percent of the currency in the country. The old currency could be exchanged for new bills, but those were in short supply and no replacement bills had been printed to avoid tipping off anyone about the plan. Officials warned that while they were doing what they could, the currency shortage was not going to disappear overnight. “Please remember this dislocation is not going to get over in the 50 days the prime minister has mentioned,” Arun Shourie, a former cabinet minister, said Thursday evening on NDTV, an Indian news channel, adding that experts had estimated the full adjustment could take months. “The scale of this event is so unprecedented that we are all struggling to see where the chips will fall,” Pratap Bhanu Mehta, the president of the Centre for Policy Research, wrote in The Indian Express. “Just as a matter of political analysis, the sheer audacity of this move is breathtaking.” 