LONDON — After months of public silence, the estranged father of Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, went on British television on Monday to appeal to his daughter to reconnect with him — and asked Queen Elizabeth II to help them mend their relationship. The duchess’s father, Thomas Markle, said that he had been sending texts to his daughter daily but without receiving replies, and that they had not spoken since her much-publicized wedding to Prince Harry in May. After much speculation about whether he would attend the royal wedding, and a seemingly endless string of scathing stories in the British tabloids, Mr. Markle, a former Hollywood lighting director, watched the event on television from Mexico, where he lived. He had been embarrassed by the revelation that he had conspired with a paparazzo in Mexico to pose for photographs that were then falsely offered to news outlets as having been taken without his permission, and said that heart problems prevented him from traveling to Windsor for the wedding. On Monday, Mr. Markle, 74, said in a live interview with “Good Morning Britain,” a talk show on the broadcaster ITV, that his absence from the media spotlight since the wedding had been part of an effort to get into his daughter’s good graces — and the royal family’s — but to no avail. “I’ve been quiet for six months, and no one has returned anything back to me, no one’s said a word to me,” he said, speaking from California. He professed fatherly love for his daughter, an American who has charmed millions of Britons, and he pleaded with her to reach out. He even asked for the intervention of the 92-year-old British monarch to help mend his family’s rift. “I would appreciate anything she can do, and I would think that she would want to resolve the family problems,” he said of the queen. “All families, royal or not, are the same, and they should all be together, certainly around the holidays,” he added. Addressing the fact the duchess is pregnant, he said he hoped to meet his future grandchild. One of the “Good Morning Britain” interviewers, Piers Morgan, might not have been the most impartial host — a fact noted by many people who criticized him on social media. Mr. Morgan recently wrote a scornful column in the tabloid The Daily Mail claiming that he and the duchess had been friends when she was known as an actress, but that she had shunned, or “ghosted” him after she met the prince. After lavishing positive attention on the duchess, the notoriously fickle British tabloids have turned on her, reporting that she was feuding with her sister-in-law, Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, and that she had been “difficult” with palace staff. In his 18-minute interview on Monday, her father rose to her defense. “I can’t see her being rude to anybody,” he said. “She’s always been a very controlling person, that’s part of her nature, but she’s never been rude.” A Kensington Palace spokeswoman said there would be no royal comment on Mr. Markle’s interview. 