LONDON — One of the last remaining mysteries of the wedding of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry on Saturday has been cleared up: who will walk her down the aisle. Prince Charles, the father of the groom, will do the honors for part of the way, according to a statement from Kensington Palace on Friday. Apparently, Ms. Markle will start the walk on her own and meet him at the choir. “Ms. Meghan Markle has asked His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales to accompany her down the aisle of the Quire of St. George’s Chapel on her wedding day,” the statement said. The “quire,” or choir, is the section of the chapel between the main seating area — called the nave — and the high altar. On Thursday, Ms. Markle, an American actress, confirmed that her father, Thomas Markle, 73, who lives in Mexico, would not be at the ceremony at Windsor Castle. “Sadly, my father would not be attending our wedding,” she said. “I have always cared for my father and hope he can be given the space he needs to focus on his health.” [Read more wedding coverage: Ms. Markle’s statement on her father | Her mother’s prominent role on the big day | Her family struggles] There had been broad media speculation about who might take the role, and possible candidates included Ms. Markle’s mother, Doria Ragland, a yoga instructor and social worker, and Prince Charles. On Friday, Buckingham Palace said Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh had met Ms. Markle’s mother at Windsor Castle. Prince Harry once described the British royals as the family Ms. Markle “never had,” a reference to his fiancée’s family troubles. Her parents are divorced, and some of her half siblings have spoken out against her impending nuptials. Ms. Markle’s half sister Samantha Markle, among a contingent of the bride’s relatives who were not invited to the wedding, has vented on Twitter, on British television and in the tabloids. Ms. Markle’s half brother, Thomas Markle Jr., warned Prince Harry in an open letter that the marriage would be “the biggest mistake in royal wedding history.” Prince Harry’s brother, Prince William, will be his best man; Ms. Markle’s bridesmaids and page boys will include Prince William’s two older children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte. Buckingham Palace said on Friday that Prince Philip, Harry’s grandfather, who recently had hip surgery, would attend the ceremony, according to local news outlets. 