LONDON — Karen Gibson wanted some silence. She was standing before the Kingdom Choir, the gospel ensemble she founded and has led for more than 20 years, during a recent rehearsal at a church in the London neighborhood of Pimlico. The group had just been working on a version of “All of Me,” made famous by John Legend, and a couple of dozen singers were enjoying a rambunctious moment of downtime. “O.K., got to listen,” Ms. Gibson said, raising her arms and her voice. The chattering continued. “When I say, ‘Listen,’ I’m serious,” she said, much louder. The talking stopped. “You see how things are kicking up. You are going to have to be on the top of your game. When I say, ‘Listen,’ I’m saying it for a reason. Am I clear?” “Yes, ma’am,” the group replied. Once a passion project for part-timers, there’s a new intensity to rehearsals of the Kingdom Choir. It started soon after May 19, the day the group dazzled millions of viewers at the royal wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, now the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. For those who hadn’t taken a look at the program, there was the initial surprise of a stirring sermon by Michael Curry, an African-American preacher. Once he was done, all eyes turned to the rear of the church where the Kingdom Choir launched into three-part harmony version of “Stand by Me.” A song made famous by Ben E. King, an American soul artist, performed by black singers, for an aristocracy that is emblematically British and white. As a bit of culture splicing, it was inspired, though Ms. Gibson said that initially she had no idea that she and her choir had triumphed. “We’re used to people shouting during our songs,” she said in an interview a few days after the Pimlico rehearsal. “When we were done, all we heard was the rustling of people turning their heads around.” In the days that followed, the media in Britain anointed Ms. Gibson the country’s “godmother of gospel”; YouTube videos of the choir’s performance have been viewed several million times. For a group whose biggest previous audience was 200 people, the transition from obscurity to international acclaim was instant. And just getting started. On Friday, Sony releases the Kingdom Choir’s debut album, “Stand By Me,” recorded, in part, with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. The group will perform in Sydney, Australia, at the close of the Invictus Games on Oct. 27, and an 18-city tour of Britain, the group’s first, is planned for next year. That will be followed by to-be-announced dates in the United States, according to the choir’s management. For Ms. Gibson, a natural introvert with a beatific smile, notoriety has been an adjustment. Her elaborate upswirl of pewter-toned hair makes her instantly recognizable, and she said she was getting accustomed to fame, which she finds both strange and exhilarating. As she took a seat for this interview, in a South London cafe, a young man stood to make room. “Your music helped me through a very dark place,” he said, as he picked up his backpack and moved. “The weird part is that I am living the same life I’ve always lived,” Ms. Gibson said, after the two talked for a minute. “I go to the same supermarket. I’m making the same music. I’m ordinary. But not.” Ms. Gibson has been involved with gospel singing since she was a teenager, growing up in the Battersea neighborhood of South London and attending a black Pentecostal church. Inspired by early work of the Winans, who would become perhaps the United States’ foremost gospel family, she, her sister and some childhood friends formed a sextet called New Dawn. The group performed all over England, primarily at churches. After high school, Ms. Gibson spent “11 unhappy years” in information technology for an arm of local government. When she was laid off, she found a job teaching gospel at a girls Catholic school. She formed the Kingdom Choir in 1994, reuniting members of New Dawn and recruiting others who had the right mix of singing chops and positive energy. “I don’t audition,” Ms. Gibson said. “It’s down to our connection.” There are dozens of gospel groups in Britain and many were more prominent than the Kingdom Choir. But one former Kingdom member knew Eva Williams, Prince Charles’s deputy head of communication. Ms. Gibson was riding a bus one day in March when her cellphone rang. “We’d like to invite you to sing at the royal wedding,” Ms. Williams said. “Mostly what I felt was disbelief,” Ms. Gibson remembers. “Right up until the wedding, I kept thinking, this is going to fall through.” She was initially instructed not to tell anyone, a challenge for a conductor who needs 20 singers to clear their calendar, months in advance. Elaine Simpson, a choir member and longtime friend, was one of those recruited. “Karen called me and asked if I was free on May 19,” Ms. Simpson said. “I said, ‘I’m not free. Why?’ And she said, ‘Google the date.’ I was thinking, what is the point of Googling a date?” In an instant, Ms. Simpson decided she could be free on May 19. Gathering members was the easy part. The challenge was coming up with an arrangement of “Stand by Me,” a request of the royals, that the couple liked. The first version, sent via MP3, got a polite, “No, thank you.” Prince Harry and Ms. Markle wanted it stripped down and less syncopated, Ms. Gibson said. Versions two, three, four, five and six were all rejected with the same directive: Pare it back. So Ms. Gibson suggested a face-to-face meeting with the couple. Off she went to Kensington Palace with five singers and a keyboard player. “They were lovely,” she said. “And I just walked through an arrangement on the spot. ‘Do “oohs” here. The second verse will come in here.’ And the minute we started to sing, I could just feel their approval, the joy, the effect. Both of them said, ‘That’s the one.’ ” It wasn’t. When the choir recorded the new arrangement, it reacquired “bells and whistles,” Ms. Gibson’s shorthand for more complicated rhythms and additional harmonies. Versions seven, eight, nine, 10, 11 and 12 were all turned down. With no time left for more back and forth, the choir improvised what amounted to version 13 on wedding day. The members met that morning at Buckingham Palace and drove roughly 25 miles to St. George’s Chapel with a police escort. “We were so ready,” Ms. Gibson said of the performance. “We just prayed that this gift of a song was accepted.” Only during the end of the second number, “This Little Light of Mine” — sung as the royal couple left the church and got into a horse-drawn carriage — were there claps and cheers. A few attendees offered congratulations. The actor Tom Hardy gave Ms. Gibson a hug. Then bodyguards came to escort her and other members to a press room, where the group got its first taste of celebrity. “It was a bit of pandemonium,” Ms. Simpson said. “We were trying to get to the BBC studio with this escort and we were literally mobbed. People came up to us crying, wanting our photographs. But it was all love. Everyone was smiling, laughing.” In a matter of days, the group’s Instagram account soared from 700 followers to 32,000. Friends and well-wishers called, as did a talent manager, Jonathan Shalit. He’d seen a story about the choir and noticed that Ms. Gibson hadn’t mentioned anything about an album — either a deal or an imminent release. “They didn’t even have a P.R. person, but I managed to track down a contact for her,” Mr. Shalit said in an interview. “When I found out that they didn’t have a record deal, I was gobsmacked.” His pitch to Ms. Gibson emphasized the rewards of the here rather than the hereafter. “He asked me, ‘If you had any amount of money, what would you do with it?’ ” she recalled. “And I said, ‘I want to look after my mum. I want to pay off her bills. Pay off my bills.” With the promise of added income has come added work. Rehearsals are now twice a week, instead of once every two. Some choir members have quit their full-time jobs. But even as the Kingdom Choir goes pro, it has kept the jubilant atmosphere that has long defined it. For every stern word that Ms. Gibson uttered at the Pimlico rehearsal, there were 20 of pure encouragement. The night ended with the choir listening back to a track they’d recorded for the album. It was Jill Scott’s “Golden,” and for many in the room, it was the first time they’d heard the finished product. The choir was on its feet, singing along to their own voices, dancing and jumping, an almost athletic outburst of bliss. In a corner, Ms. Gibson beamed, clapped and joined in on the chorus: “Living my life like it’s golden, living my life like it’s golden.” 