India formally joins Missile Technology Control Regime
NEW DELHI: India on Monday formally joined Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) -- after years of negotiations that started during the A B Vajpayee era -- enabling it to access technologies that will boost its missile, space and UAV programs.  India will now be entitled to “full participation” in MTCR organisational activities including the October 2016 plenary of the regime which will take place in Busan South Korea. The accession to MTCR will come as boost for the Narendra Modi government which last week did not succeed in its efforts to put India in NSG following stiff opposition from China.  Interestingly China is a not a member of MTCR which now has 35 members after India’s accession. For years Beijing tried to enter MTCR without success. India has been seeking admission into all four export control groups -- NSG, MTCR, Australia and Wassenar groups. MTCR membership in particular will boost India’s space, missile and UAV programs by allowing access to state-of-the-art technology and allow further Joint Ventures with traditional partners like Russia, France and USA as well as other members of the exclusive club.  The MTCR Point of Contact in Paris has conveyed the decision regarding India’s accession to the regime through the Embassy of France in New Delhi as well as the Embassies of The Netherlands and Luxembourg.  “As all formal procedures for membership have now been finalised, the Chairman of the joint Netherlands-Luxembourg Chairmanship of the Missile Technology Control Regime, Ambassador Piet de Klerk (NL), in close consultation with the French MTCR Point of Contact, is pleased to announce today that the Republic of India now formally is the 35th member of the Regime,” said an official statement issued by the Chair of the MTCR from The Hague, Netherlands.  The official declaration from the MTCR Chair further said, “The MTCR welcomes India into the Regime, convinced that its membership will strengthen the international efforts to prevent proliferation of delivery systems [ballistic missiles or unmanned aircraft] capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction”.  This declaration came within minutes of Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar attending a brief official ceremony at the South Block which was attended by the ambassadors of Netherlands, Luxembourg and the ambassador-designate of France to India.  “India’s entry into the regime as its thirty-fifth member would be mutually beneficial in the furtherance of international non-proliferation objectives,” said the Ministry of External Affairs in a statement after the ceremony.  Expressing its appreciation to the other members, the MEA statement noted, “India would like to thank each of the thirty-four MTCR Partners for their support for India’s membership. We would also like to thank Ambassador Piet de Klerk of The Netherlands and Mr. Robert Steinmetz of Luxembourg, co-Chairs of the MTCR, for facilitating India’s accession to the regime.”  India boosted its chance to enter MTCR by joining The Hague Code of Conduct against Ballistic Missile Proliferation (HCoC) this May.  