Virushka's wedding announcement is the Golden Tweet of 2017
 MUMBAI: Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli's fairytale wedding was undoubtedly one of the most talked about events this year and now the actor's tweet announcing her marriage to the Indian cricket captain has become the Golden tweet of the year for Bollywood.

According to a statement by the microblogging site, Anushka's tweet, which was accompanied by a wedding picture, was one of the most retweeted posts of the year.

"Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you. This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans and well-wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey," she had written.


Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you. Thi… https://t.co/g4QLeSQEOW&mdash; Anushka Sharma (@AnushkaSharma) 1513005702000

Virat also confirmed their wedding with the similar post along with a different picture. The cricketer's tweet became the most retweeted post, surpassing South actor Surya Sivakumar's tweet unveiling the second look of his Tamil film 'Thaana Serndha Kootam'.


Today we have promised each other to be bound in love for ever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you.Thi… https://t.co/dMmHk8NibG&mdash; Virat Kohli (@imVkohli) 1513005701000

Superstars Shah Rukh Khan and Salman were the most talked about male celebs on Twitter this year. The list also included megastar Amitabh Bachchan, music maestro AR Rahman, Akshay Kumar and young star Varun Dhawan.


var totalpage = '3',
			curpage = 1,
			slideval = '62177291';
		var slider62177291 = {/*Object for multiplider*/
			totalpage: '3',
			curpage: 1,
			slideval: '62177291',
			totalslide : '15'
		}Virushka, Zak-Ghatge, and Reddy wedding: Celeb nuptials in 2017 got classy, stylish of 15NextPrevPlay SlideshowNo Stop To Big-Fat Indian Weddings21 Dec, 2017Demonetisation, and its after-effects, didn't prove to be a dampener when it came to big, fat Indian weddings in 2017. The extravagant celebrations were back on track within weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the note-ban. Floral décors, traditional jewelleries and designer bridal wears were the winners this year, and India once again proved that it is one of the biggest markets for luxurious weddings.

From Virushka to HDFC top boss Aditya Puri's actress daughter, these celebrity-weddings were the most-talked about of the year gone by:Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma20 Dec, 2017
	Venue: Borgo Finocchieto, Tuscany (Italy)

	Date: December 11, 2017

	The power couple tied the knot at a hush-hush ceremony in Tuscany, Italy. Fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee worked on the bride and groom's complete wedding wardrobe (from mehendi to post-wedding dinner). The couple picked Rome as their honeymoon destination.

	(Image: Instagram/@storiesbyjosephradhik)Zaheer Khan and Sagarika Ghatge20 Dec, 2017
	Venue: Lower Parel, Mumbai (India)

	Date: November 23, 2017

	The much-in-love couple took their wedding vows in a private, low-key ceremony at the cricketer's residence. The couple had a registered marriage, which was followed by two parties for friends from Bollywood and cricket world. Sachin and Anjali Tendulkar, Yuvraj Singh and wife Hazel Keech, Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma, also attended the grand reception. The newlyweds went on a long honeymoon to the Maldives.

	(Image: Instagram/@sagarikaghatge)Amrita Puri and Imrun Sethi20 Dec, 2017
	Venue: Anantara Riverside Resort, Bangkok
	
	Date: November 11, 2017

	The 'Kai Po Che' actress Amrita Puri aced her three-day long destination wedding with hotelier boyfriend Imrun Sethi in Bangkok. While the HDFC Bank MD Aditya Puri's actress daughter opted for a Sabyasachi lehenga, the groom wore a classic cream sherwani and turban for the nuptials.

	(Image: Instagram/@amupuri)Naga Chaitanya and Samantha Ruth Prabhu20 Dec, 2017
	Venue: Goa (India)

	Date: October 6, 2017

	Naga and Samantha had one of the most lavish weddings of the film industry this year. The Tamilian wedding ceremony was followed by a church wedding. The beautiful pictures from the union were posted by Chaitanya's father and veteran actor Akkineni Nagarjuna.

	(Image: Instagram/@storiesbyjosephradhik)Next
Deepika Padukone, whose much-awaited film "Padmavati" got mired in controversy and could not make it to the theatres as per the scheduled release, topped the list of the most talked about female actors.

Alia Bhatt, Priyanka Chopra, Shraddha Kapoor and Bhumi Pednekar are also part of the list.

Shah Rukh's "Raees" may not have been able to become a huge box office success, but the film was the most talked about Bollywood movie on Twitter.

Salman's latest release "Tiger Zinda Hai" and "Tubelight" are on the second and third spot respectively.

Akshay's blockbuster "Toilet: Ek Prem Katha", Rohit Shetty's "Golmaal Again" and Ranbir Kapoor's "Jagga Jasoos" are also in top ten.

Sanjay Leela Bhansali-directed "Padmavati", which also features Ranveer Singh and Shahid Kapoor, was fourth on the list of the most talked about Bollywood movies on the site.



var totalpage = '2',
			curpage = 1,
			slideval = '62203946';
		var slider62203946 = {/*Object for multiplider*/
			totalpage: '2',
			curpage: 1,
			slideval: '62203946',
			totalslide : '10'
		}#VirushkaReception: Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma's Delhi bash had a lot of old-world char... of 10NextPrevPlay SlideshowThe Grand Reception22 Dec, 2017The newsmakers for the past few days - Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma - hosted their first post-wedding reception in Delhi on Thursday. Friends and family, along with those from the corridors of power, got together to bless the couple.

Here are some moments from the party...Going Traditional22 Dec, 2017The theme for the evening was highly traditional. Anushka Sharma looked gorgeous in a red Benarasi saree from the by-lanes of Peeli Kohti in Benaras, designed by Sabyasachi Mukherjee. She completed her look with uncut diamond choker and jhumkas from the designer's jewellery collection. And kept the traditional look intact with a middle parting and a golden choker with flowers in her hair.

The 29-year-old Kohli looked elegant in a black-textured, silk signature bandhgala with the house buttons in 18k gold and a white silk kurta with hand-woven brocade churidaar. He paired his outfit with mojris from the designer and a hand-embroidered antique Pashmina shawl from 'Kashmir Revival' project.Hello, Prime Minister!22 Dec, 2017A day after the couple had called upon Narendra Modi with a special invite, the Prime Minister showed up to bless the couple. He also gifted a red rose each to the newlyweds.

Family First22 Dec, 2017The couple pose with Prime Minister Narendra Modi (third from left), and new bride Anushka Sharma's family - brother Karnesh (left), mother Ashima (second from left) and father Ajay Kumar (right).

(Image: Instagram/@manav.manglani)Family Ties22 Dec, 2017It was the Kohli family this time with the couple and PM Modi - brother Vikash Kohli with his wife (left), Mother Saroj (third from left) and sister Bhavna Kohli with husband (right).

(Image: Instagram/@ady_jain7)Next
