Thoughtful, yet elegant: Anushka-Virat's reception invite has a green twist to it
The wedding festivities are not over for Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma and cricketer Virat Kohli. After tying the knot in a secret ceremony in Italy, the couple is gearing up for the grand celebrations in Delhi and Mumbai.

 Director Mahesh Bhatt recently shared a picture of the beautiful reception invite on Twitter.

 He captioned the photo, "They made it! Our heartiest congratulations to Anushka & Virat. We pray that this love story goes on forever and ever. Amen! @imVkohli @anushkasharma."



  They made it ! Our heartiest congratulations to Anushka & Virat. We pray that this love story goes on forever and ever. Amen !@imVkohli 
 @anushkasharma
pic.twitter.com/dk9sqm4WgU

 — Mahesh Bhatt (@MaheshNBhatt) 
 December 13, 2017

 The floral invite is pastel green in colour with blooming pink flowers on the cover. It also includes a tiny indoor plant.

 The invite box was customised with Mahesh Bhatt And Soni Razdan's name embossed on a gold plate.

 The extravagant receptions will take place in Delhi (Kohli's hometown) on December 21 and Mumbai on December 26 when friends from the Bollywood and cricket world are invited.

 After the wedding, Virat Kohli's fan club on Twitter also shared a glimpse of the invite of their Delhi reception. The card is simple and made in shades of silver and ivory with gold inscription.



  Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma will be hosting a reception in New Delhi for their relatives on 21st December which will be followed by a reception for industry friends and cricketers in Mumbai on 26th December! 
 #VirushkaKiShadi
pic.twitter.com/j4tm3YEKfP

 — Virat Kohli Fan Club (@TeamVirat) 
 December 12, 2017

 The couple picked Rome as their honeymoon destination right after getting married in a Tuscany, Italy on December 11, 2017.

 The newlyweds recently shared two different images from the wedding on Twitter and Instagram. The posts read: "Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you. This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans & well wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey."



  Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you. This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans & well wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey. 
 pic.twitter.com/Scobdiqk7l

 — Anushka Sharma (@AnushkaSharma) 
 December 11, 2017



  Today we have promised each other to be bound in love for ever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you.This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans & well wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey. 
 pic.twitter.com/aobTUwMNAK

 — Virat Kohli (@imVkohli) 
 December 11, 2017










