It's official! Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma are married now
After days of speculation, Filmfare magazine has finally confirmed that the Indian cricket team's captain Virat Kohli and Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma have tied the knot.

The couple announced the news with photos from the ceremony. "Today we have promised each other to be bound in love for ever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you.This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans & well wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey," both Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma tweeted.

The bride looked resplendent in a pink Sabyasachi wedding lehenga, while the groom looked dapper in a colour-coordinated sherwani from the same designer. Sharma was seen leaving the fashion designer's house a week ago.



Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you. Thi… https://t.co/g4QLeSQEOW&mdash; Anushka Sharma (@AnushkaSharma) 1513005702000

Today we have promised each other to be bound in love for ever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you.Thi… https://t.co/dMmHk8NibG&mdash; Virat Kohli (@imVkohli) 1513005701000


 Virushka took their wedding vows in a destination wedding at Milan, Italy amidst close friends and family. The recent reports from sources indicate that the secret wedding took place in a beautiful villa 'Borgo Finocchieto' in Tuscany, which is about four-and-a-half hour drive away from Milan.



 Their's was touted to be the most-awaited wedding of 2017. After the news broke about their wedding last week, the spokesperson of the 29-year-old actress denied the rumours, saying, "There is absolutely no truth to it."

 According to reports, Sharma, with her father Ajay Kumar Sharma, mother Ashima and brother Karnesh, had plans to head to Milan from Zurich for the nuptials.

 While the wedding was an intimate affair, it is expected that a high-profile reception will be organised later this month in Mumbai.




 After Virat Kohli asked BCCI for a break from playing matches in December, there was no rest to the couple's wedding rumours.

 The power-couple first met while shooting for a television commercial in 2013.

 The couple was recently seen shaking a leg at actress Sagarika Ghatge and cricketer Zaheer Khan's wedding in November.

 Sharma also accompanied beau Kohli to the Indian Sports Awards, which he launched in partnership with the RP-SG group.



In a statement by Sharma's representative, the couple said they will shift to their new residence in Worli, Mumbai later this month.

After the reception, the couple will fly to South Africa where Kohli will be prepping for the upcoming series.

