Inside Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma wedding: Full menu and everything else you need to know
Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma are finally man and wife. They tied the knot earlier today in a hush-hush ceremony in Italy. Virushka (the sobriquet given to the couple) then confirmed the news on Twitter and shared inside pictures of their big day.Today we have promised each other to be bound in love for ever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you.This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans & well wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey. pic.twitter.com/aobTUwMNAK- Virat Kohli (@imVkohli) December 11, 2017
Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share the news with you. This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans & well wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey. pic.twitter.com/Scobdiqk7l- Anushka Sharma (@AnushkaSharma) December 11, 2017
Bollywood celebs did not lose a moment to wish the newlyweds a happy married life:Congratulations, may this partnership last forever?????????God Bless @anushkasharma @viratkohli #VirushkaWEDDING- SRIDEVI BONEY KAPOOR (@SrideviBKapoor) December 11, 2017
CONGRATULATIONS @imVkohli and @AnushkaSharma on your beautiful marriage in #Italy, in picturesque #Tuscany, looking blissfully happy. Bless both of you Virat and Anushka ?????????#Virushka #VirushkaWEDDING #VirushkaKiShaadi- KABIR BEDI (@iKabirBedi) December 11, 2017
This is absolutely beautiful?? Congratulations @AnushkaSharma @imVkohli .. Thank you for making us all believe in love, fairytales & happy endings!!! #VirushkaWEDDING https://t.co/9IhXXXIdtv- Sophie Choudry (@Sophie_Choudry) December 11, 2017
Here's what you need to know about the biggest wedding of the year:- Virat and Anushka's wedding was designed by Delhi-based wedding planner Devika Narain.- Joseph Radhik, who is married to Devika Narain, photographed the ceremony. Joseph Radhik shot fashion designer Masaba's wedding too.(exclusive) video from #VirushkaWEDDING @imVkohli @AnushkaSharma pic.twitter.com/nV3akc8Ga8- Dhamaal Post (@DhamaalPost) December 11, 2017
- Fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee told India Today, "We did the clothes for both the bride and the groom for all the functions. From engagement to mehendi and sangeet, wedding and post-wedding dinner. It was wonderful to work with the couple. From the House of Sabyasachi, we wish them a very happy married life."- "For her engagement, Anushka wanted to wear a Sabyasachi velvet saree. And we made it in our signature Gulkand Burgundy. It was hand-embroidered using miniature pearls and the finest quality zardosi and marori. She wore a stunning uncut diamond and pearl choker with matching studs. The entire look was complemented with kohl-rimmed eyes, red roses and our now iconic micro dot bindi," said a statement from the designer.- Chef Ritu Dalmia was in charge of the catering at the Virushka wedding. The menu included in-house specialities from Cittamani, Dalmia's restaurant. From porcini mushrooms wrapped in bikaneri roti to stuffed ravioli with paneer kurchan, the menu at Virat and Anushka's wedding was tailor-made. The spread was extensive South Indian, with Indian desserts like rabdi, etc.Encircled is Virat Kohli's coachBunty Sajdeh (C), Virat's manager, at the venue- Virat's manager Bunty Sajdeh was also at the wedding, as was his childhood coach Rajkumar Sharma.Yash Raj Films' statement to the media read:"We are very happy to announce that Ms. Anushka Sharma and Mr. Virat Kohli got married at a private ceremony in Italy, today. The wedding was attended by close family and a few friends as they wished their wedding to be a very private affair. The wedding was performed as per Hindu rituals. Top fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee has designed the wedding ensemble for both the bride and the groom. Virat and Anushka will now start inviting all industry friends and colleagues for the celebrations that are set to happen in Mumbai.Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli said in a joint statement, "Today we have promised each other to be bound in love forever. We are truly blessed to share this wonderful news with you. This beautiful day will be made more special with the love and support of our family of fans and well wishers. Thank you for being such an important part of our journey."The couple will be hosting a reception in New Delhi for their relatives on 21st December which will be followed by a reception for industry friends and cricketers in Mumbai on 26th December.The newly wed couple will travel to South Africa where Virat will start prepping for the upcoming series and Anushka will spend New Year's Eve with him and return in the first week of January to begin the next schedule of Anand L Rai's film with Shah Rukh Khan in Mumbai. She will also start prepping for Sui Dhaaga as the shooting for the same starts in February 2018 with Varun Dhawan. Anushka will also be busy with the marketing and promotions of Pari which is releasing on 9th February.Virat, on the other hand, will be playing the series in South Africa for 2 months which includes three Tests, six One Day Internationals (ODIs) and three Twenty20 International (T20I) matches.Post their wedding the newly wed couple will be shifting to their new residence in Worli, Mumbai in December once they return from Delhi.ALSO SEE: Everything you need to know about Virat and Anushka's wedding venue in ItalyTheir spokesperson said, "We are extremely grateful to the media for their support and understanding in making this special occasion a memorable one and thank them for their continued love and support.""News of Virat and Anushka's wedding sent netizens into a frenzy and #VirushkaWedding began trending on Twitter minutes after it was announced that the couple had made their relationship official.Speculation of an Italian wedding for Virat and Anushka by December 12 first started doing the rounds when sources told India Today Television that the couple's families had booked a place in Italy from December 9 to December 12.The actress's spokesperson had denied the reports, but Anushka and Virat flying out of the country with their respective families seemed to confirm that a wedding was indeed on the cards. That Anushka's family priest, Maharaj Anant Baba of Anant Dham Atmabodh Ashram in Haridwar, accompanied her family only added fuel to the fire.ALSO SEE: When Anushka revealed all about her weddingInitial reports said that the wedding was to take place in Milan, but India Today revealed that the Borgo Finocchieto resort near Tuscany was where Virat and Anushka took the plunge.Reportedly, the dates were finalised when the couple was in Sri Lanka, in August this year. As netizens were going gaga over pictures of their gardening date, their families met and discussed their wedding dates. Anushka's family priest then zeroed in on a December wedding. However, Virat and Anushka decided to keep the news under wraps.In 2014, in an interview to Harper's Bazaar Bride, Anushka said that if she were to have a destination wedding, she would want it to be traditional, and somewhere close to nature - "in a vineyard, perhaps". Her wedding, seems in tandem with the kind of a ceremony she wanted.ALSO SEE | FULL COVERAGE: Virushka Wedding ALSO WATCH: Virat and Anushka to have a day wedding, followed by party at night? 