Gorkhaland sabre rattles
 Read more below
Siliguri/Calcutta, Feb. 16: Subash Ghisingh today tried to leverage his bargaining power before another round of tripartite talks in Delhi by claiming that Jyoti Basu had told him he could revive the ?Gorkhaland slogan? if the provisions of the hill accord were not met. 
Talks are being held between Delhi, Bengal and the Gorkha National Liberation Front chief to end the stand-off over elections to the autonomous hill council. 
?It?s more than a decade that the DGHC is being run on a trial-and-error method. But it?s high time that such experiments should stop. New Delhi should understand the political implication of a new Gorkhaland movement in the hills since such an eventuality could put the country?s security at stake,? Ghisingh said this morning at Pintail village, near Sukna. 
But the GNLF leader, who had drawn a parallel between the situation in the Darjeeling hills and Nepal, stopped short of saying a separate state was on his agenda before leaving for Delhi. 
In Calcutta, Basu, who had presided over the peace accord, reacted sharply. ?This is a blatant lie. I never told Ghisingh that he could raise the demand for Gorkhaland. I always advocated peace when thousands of party supporters were being killed during the Gorkhaland agitation,? he said. 
?In fact, Ghisingh talks rubbish these days as he is feeling scared about the impending polls to the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council. The trouble within his own party has been worrying him most,? Basu added. 
The state government is firm on elections to the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council before March 25 as constitutionally the term of the board cannot be extended any further. 
Municipal affairs minister Asok Bhattacharya said this afternoon Ghisingh had agreed to ?drop the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland? according to the 1988 Memorandum of Settlement. 
?In the overall national interest and in response to the Prime Minister?s call, the GNLF agrees to drop the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland for the social, economic, educational and cultural advancement of the people residing in the hill areas of Darjeeling district. It was agreed to have an autonomous hill council to be set up under a state act,? says the accord. 
Bhattacharya regretted that Ghisingh has been raising new demands though several of his wishes have been fulfilled. 
?Ghisingh is saying different things at different times. Perhaps it has something to do with his astrologer telling him that if elections are held in 2005, it will not be good for him...,? the minister said. 
