Plastic ban fine print confuses consumers, retailers in Maharashtra
NEW DELHI | KOLKATA: The blanket ban on plastic in Maharashtra has spooked consumers and retailers alike and companies are scrambling to figure out the fine print to get around a lot of ambiguities. Starting Saturday, use of plastic carry bags, plastic cups and plates and even unlabelled plastic packaging is illegal in the state. 

To be on the safer side, Big Bazaar outlets and other supermarket operators in Maharashtra have done away with the practice of shrinkwrapping fruits and vegetables and various other products. “We had to stop shrink wrapping of food and vegetable products. Then, it is the question of hygiene standards. Now, the question is how do I achieve food safety requirements?” asks Rakesh Biyani, joint managing director of Future Group. 

While large retailers are not clear on issues including whether they can shrink-wrap food items, notebooks to plastic bottles, small shopkeepers are worried if they can still sell garments in unbranded transparent plastic covers. 

Future Group, one of India’s leading retail pioneers, is saddled with a large quantity of plastic packaging material that is now illegal to use in the state. “Packaging materials require declaration on them and on the recycling policies. Now, unfortunately, lot of these changes need much longer period of transition, and overnight retailers with existing stuff have been asked to become compliant. It is not possible to become compliant overnight on existing inventory,” Biyani said. 

In March, Maharashtra, announced a ban on manufacturing, use and sale of one-time use plastic items such as bags, plates, spoons and cups among others. The government had given time for manufacturers and sellers to clear their stocks by Saturday, when the ban came into effect. 

While the Maharashtra government had earlier banned PET bottles below 500 ml for soft drinks, juices and water, it since eased the ban to provide relief to soft drink and packaged water brands. 

“Many smaller shopkeepers have garments in plastic covers that are not necessarily labelled but has come from the manufacturers. They don’t know whether it falls under packaging done at the time of manufacturing or not,” said Kumar Rajagopalan, chief executive of Retailers Association of India, the largest group of the country’s organised retailers. 

“They are worried as they can’t be keeping those items out in the loose as things would get spoiled. There is a lot of confusion among all sorts of customer-facing businesses and they do not know when the inspectors will come and start issuing challans.” Kumar said the penalties are stringent as the first-time violation of the plastic ban attracts a fine of Rs 5,000, second time Rs 10,000 and a third violation Rs 25,000 and would be punishable with jail.
