Maharashtra plastic ban from tomorrow: All you want to know
Maharashtra plastic ban is all set to come into effect from tomorrow. Those caught using plastic will be imposed with heavy penalty and the government has already constituted teams to check the violations. 

On March 23, the Maharashtra government had issued a notification, imposing a ban on the manufacturing, use, sale, distribution and storage of all plastic materials like one-time-use bags, spoons, plates, PET and PETE bottles and also thermocol items. The government decided against plastic to check the damage caused to the environment. 

The banned items include single-use disposable dishes, cups, plates, glasses, forks, bowls, containers, plastic packaging to wrap or store products, and packaging of food items and food grain material.

Yesterday, the law panel of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has rejected the civic body's demand to reduce the minimum fine proposed for violating plastic ban from Rs 5000 to Rs 200.

With the rejection, people carrying banned plastic items will be fined from Rs 5000 to Rs 25,000.

On June 8, the state government informed the Bombay High Court that it has formed a special task force comprising plastic manufacturers' associations, experts and government officials to come up with a solution to put an end to plastic use in the state.

"Fine for 1st offence Rs 5000. Fine for 2nd Offence Rs 10000. Fine for subsequent offence Rs 25000 and 3 months imprisonment. For non-compliance with provisions of Maharashtra Non-biodegradable Garbage Control Act 2006 offence can be registered in COURT," Deputy Municipal Commissioner Nidhi Choudhari said in a tweet.

However, there is no ban on plastic packaging for medical purpose.

"Is there a ban on plastic packaging for medical purpose?- NO. Is there a ban on rain coat/tarpaulin sheets/pens/Plastic wrapper of biscuits, chips etc? -NO. Is there a ban on plastic/thermocol packaging of products at manufacturing stage? -NO," she said in another tweet.

Use of plastic bags by shops and malls have also been banned.

"Is there a ban on high quality carry bags issued erstwhile by malls/shops?- YES. Is there a ban on plastic/thermocol decorative items?- YES. Is there a ban on disposable cutlery, plates, bowls, cups etc?- YES. Is there a ban on Non Woven polypropylene bags?- YES," she added.


(With agency inputs)

