Mariyappan Thangavelu overcomes lack of funding to win Paralympics Gold
The whole of India woke up on Saturday morning and immediately started to rejoice as news came in that Mariyappan Thangavelu and Varun Singh Bhati have bagged two medals, a gold and a bronze respectively, at the Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro. (Rio Paralympics: Mariyappan wins Gold, Varun Bhati bronze in high jump)Thangavelu bagged a historic gold in the men's high jump T-42 event while Bhati narrowly missed out on the chance to grab the next best spot on the podium for India and settled for the bronze. While Thangavelu made a leap of 1.89 metres, Bhati jumped his personal best of 1.86 metres to finish third. (These true heroes defy all odds, tweets Sehwag after India win medals at Paralympics)India's other medal prospect Sharad Kumar finished at number six. USA's Sam Grewe bagged the silver medal.Speaking to India Today from Rio, Thangavelu said he was confident of winning a medal for the country in his event."I am very happy with the gold medal and this is one of the happiest days of my life. I want to win more medals in the future as well."I was confident of winning a medal. Previously I was clearing the 1.85 meters mark before coming to Rio and also I'm a former world No. 1, so knew I could win at the Paralympics," Thnagavelu said in Tamil while his coach translated it in English for him.Lack of funding was the biggest challenge that Thangavelu faced ahead of the Rio Games but he still thanked the Sports Authority of India and his coach for helping him get this far."My coach Satyanarayana and the Sports Authority of India helped me a lot. I was included in the TOP scheme (Target Olympic Podium) and was also sent to Germany for training. So I'm very happy with the support that I got from my coach and the SAI."Getting a passport and the money needed for training purposes was the biggest challenge. Not getting a passport on time meant I could not be eligible for a few other events. But now all the problems are settled and I'm very happy," the 21-year-old added.Indian athletes who have just returned from the Rio Olympics have blamed various sports federations and authorities for their dismal performance at the Games.Varun Bhati, on the other hand, praised SAI and said that he didn't face any discrimination for being a physically handicapped athlete."I have been in the TOP scheme this year and the government has supported us really well. I was even sent to Ukraine for training. I don't feel so discriminated. I'm doing well for myself and I'm happy with what I've achieved," the 21-year-old expressed.