
Devendra Jhajharia wins gold, continues India’s medal run at Paralympics		
Devendra Jhajharia, on Wednesday, clinchedthe gold medal in the javelin throw F46 event of the Rio 2016 Paralympics. In doing so, Jhajharia broke the previous world record set by himself in the event. Jhajharias achievement is Indias second gold medal and fourth medal overall in the Rio Paralympics  This is the second paralympic gold that Jhajharia has won. Previously, he had won gold at the 2004 Athens Paralympics with a throw of 62.15 metres with which he set a world record. In Rio de Janeiro, he bettered that record with a throw of 63.97 metres. Thus far, in the 2016 Paralympics, Indias four medals includetwo golds won, one silver and a bronze. Jhajharia is the first Indianto win two Paralympic gold medals  Jhajharia competed in the event along with fellow Indians Rinku Hooda and Sundar Singh Gurjar. While Hooda managed a fifth-place finish, Sundar Singh Gurjar didnt start the event  Devendra Jhajharia was born to a low-earning family in Churu district, Rajasthan. He lost his left handat the age of eight after accidentally touching an electric wire while climbing a tree  READ|Who is Devendra Jhajharia: Two-time paralympic gold medalist in Javelin, Padma Shri awardee, world recordbreaker, He started competing in para-athletics while in school in 1995. Two years later, Jhajharias talent was spotted by coacj Ripudaman Singh and encouraged him to take up the sport seriously  Even before the Rio Paralympics, Jhajharias reputation as an ace thrower was established. He debuted on the international stageinthe 2002 Asian Games in Busan, South Korea. His 2004 Athens gold was only the second time an Indian had won the gold medal in the Paralympics. His achievements prompted the Indian government to bestow on him the prestigious Arjuna award in 2005. This was followed by the Rajasthan government presenting him with theMaharana Pratap Puraskar Award in the same year. Finally, he received the Padma Shri from then President Pratibha Patil in 2012  READ|Rio Paralympics: Devendra Jhajharia wins gold, breaks world record; PM Modi congratulateshim, In the 2013 IPC Athletics World Championships, thebiggest track and field competition for athletes with a disability apart from the Paralympics itself, Jhajharia had won the gold medal in the F46 Javelin throw event. He followed this up with a silver medal in the 2014 Asian Para Games in Incheon, South Korea. In 2014, he was named the para-sportsperson of the year by FICCI. Jhajharia was the flag-bearer for the Indian Paralympic contingent in Rio de Janeiro 2016  , Jhajharias medal comes a few days after Deepa Malik won a silver medal in the Shot Put event in the paralympics. Before Deepa, Indias first medals came in the form of a gold and a bronze won in the T-42 High Jump event. Thangavelu Mariyappan won the gold medal with a jump of 1.89 metres while Vrun Bhati came third on the podium with a best mark of 1.86 metres  Congratulations to Devendra Jhajharia for the historic and well-deserved Gold at the #Paralympics. We are very proud of him. #Rio2016,  Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 14 September 2016, Jhajharias medal was hailed by one and all in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the athlete through a tweet early on Wednesday. He was later congratulated by BJP President Amit Shah and Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje.