Mr. and Mrs. Jonas! Priyanka and Nick say 'I do' at Christian wedding ceremony in Jodhpur
 Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas are now man and wife! The couple tied the knot in a Christian service, officiated by Jonas's father Paul Kevin Jonas, Sr. at Jodhpur's Umaid Bhawan Palace.

The couple was dressed by international designer Ralph Lauren, who has till date only designed 2 other wedding gowns - for his daughter Dylan and daughter-in-law Lauren Bush Lauren. 

Jonas wore a Purple Label tuxedo and Chopra was stunning in a custom Ralph Lauren gown as they took their vows.

Lauren also dressed members of their wedding party.


Congratulations to @PriyankaChopra and @NickJonas on the occasion of their wedding. Ralph Lauren is honored to have… https://t.co/WsDdf7uqlv&mdash; Ralph Lauren (@RalphLauren) 1543666234000
The designer took to social media to congratulate the newlyweds.


Newlyweds @PriyankaChopra and @NickJonas shared the spotlight for the first time as guests of Ralph Lauren at the 2… https://t.co/n8cNcqWV1W&mdash; Ralph Lauren (@RalphLauren) 1543669593000
The couple, also wore creations by Ralph Lauren at the 2017 Met Gala where they were spotted together for the first time. 

The 36-year-old actress and 26-year-old singer will take their vows as per Hindu rituals at a traditional ceremony tomorrow. 

They kicked off their extravagant three-day wedding celebrations with a 
mehendi and 
sangeet ceremony on Friday. In an interview to Vogue, Chopra has said that guest will need a vacation after the weddding.


var totalpage = '1',
			curpage = 1,
			slideval = '66898933';
		var slider66898933 = {/*Object for multiplider*/
			totalpage: '1',
			curpage: 1,
			slideval: '66898933',
			totalslide : '5'
		}Love, Laughter & Happiness: Inside Priyanka Chopra & Nick Jonas's Colourful Mehendi Ceremon... of 5NextPrevPlay SlideshowCouple Of The Hour1 Dec, 2018Hours before saying 'I do' in a Christain ceremony, Priyanka Chopra & Nick Jonas had a colourful Mehendi celebration.

The newly-wed couple was all smiles, and left no stone unturned to ensure their friends and family enjoyed at the event.

Here's a look at their bright and happy function.
Love, Laughter And More1 Dec, 2018Priyanka Chopra (2nd left) looked the happiest bride in presense of her family and friends. 

While Sophie Turner (left) looked stunning in a bottle green lehenga with gold embroidery, actress Parineeta Chopra (behind second right) opted for a yellow ensemble with gold embellishments. 

Priyanka's best friend Tamanna Dutt (behind right) and Nick's mum Denis Jonas were seen enjoying the ceremony.
The Jodhpur Fairytale1 Dec, 2018Priyanka Chopra opted for a folksy, multi-hued organdy ensemble inspired by a vintage Abu Jani Sandeep Khosla (AJSK) collection. She paired it with heirloom jewellery designed by SABOO at AJSK.

On the other hand, Nick Jonas looked dapper in aqua bakhiya kurta by AJSK. He also applied henna on his hand (Priyanka's name). Here Comes The Bride1 Dec, 2018Happy Priyanka Chopra looked stunning in her colourful outfit. The actress

Photographer Joseph Radhik's team (who shot Virat Kohli & Anushka Sharma's amazing wedding pictures in December 2017) was in Jodhpur for the wedding ceremony. Abu Jani Sandeep Khosla were incharge of the decor and design. Dream Celebration1 Dec, 2018Priyanka Chopra's brother Siddharth (in yellow) and other family members shared a light moment with Groom Nick Jonas as they lifted him up on their shoulders.

The Chopras and Jonases ensured that this wedding is an amalgamation of their faiths and cultures.
Next

Also Read: Priyanka-Nick Wedding: Complete Coverage
The star-couple have gone the extra mile to keep their celebrations a private affair. Guests have reportedly been asked to refrain from using their mobile phones at the ceremonies. 

Hence, guests, including Chopra's cousin Mannara, have been posting pictures of the venue.



Earlier, Chopra's cousin from her maternal side, Rohan Akhouri, also shared an Instagram Story from the mehendi celebrations.



The high-profile wedding guest list includes the Ambanis, Sophie Turner, designers Sabyasachi Mukherjee and Sandeep Khosla among others. 


var totalpage = '3',
			curpage = 1,
			slideval = '66895523';
		var slider66895523 = {/*Object for multiplider*/
			totalpage: '3',
			curpage: 1,
			slideval: '66895523',
			totalslide : '14'
		}Priyanka-Nick's A-List Wedding Guests: Ambanis, Anand Piramal, Elizabeth Chambers, Among Ot... of 14NextPrevPlay SlideshowStar Power!1 Dec, 2018Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas are set to tie the knot in a two-day ceremony at Umaid Bhawan Palace in Jodhpur.

Friends of couple are set to grace the event with their presense.

The Ambanis, Dwayne Johnson, Lupita Nyong'o, Elizabeth Chambers, Parineeta Chopra, Manasi Scott, Anusha Dandekar with boyfriend Karan Kundra, and fashion designers Sabyasachi and Sandeep Khosla, among others will join the celebrations.

Here's a quick look at all the wedding guest-list.Visual Delight1 Dec, 2018The Umaid Bhawan Palace is illuminated for the wedding of Priyanka-Nick.

Details have been kept in tight wraps, but the weekend celebrations include a church wedding and a traditional Hindu ceremony. The lavish wedding venue charges $60,000 a night which has been booked for the weekend. We Are Family1 Dec, 2018The Ambanis arrived at Jodhpur airport in the fashionable best.

While Nita Ambani (extreme left) opted for a pink-white lehenga with embellishments, RIL Chairman Mukesh Ambani (centre) wore a black bandhgala.

Isha Ambani (extreme right) and brother Anant (second right) looked colourful as they posed for the pictures.

Radhika (second left), daughter of Encore Healthcare CEO Viren Merchant, also joined the Ambanis for Priyanka-Nick's wedding. Not Without My Daughter1 Dec, 2018Mukesh Ambani was seen sharing a light moment with Radhika Merchant and daughter Isha.

The Reliance top boss has been visiting various temples around India as Isha's wedding date approaches.
Family First1 Dec, 2018Few hours after the senior Ambani arrived, Akash (in grey suit), his fiancé Shloka Mehta (in pink, sheer gown) and Isha Ambani's fiancé Anand Piramal (in navy blue blazer) were seen in Jodhpur for Priyanka-Nick's wedding.
Next
The Wedding Filmer, who also covered Anusha-Virat and Deepika-Ranveer's wedding, are the cinematographers for PeeCee's big day.


        View this post on Instagram           The Jodhpur Crew #twftravels #theweddingfilmer A post shared by  Vishal Punjabi (@theweddingfilmer) on Nov 30, 2018 at 7:39am PST 
Earlier, Chopra and Jonas hosted a 
puja at the actress's Mumbai home before heading to Jodhpur.


Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas in Manish Malhotra ensembles at the puja in Mumbai.
The 'Quantico' actress and 'Close' singer made their relationship official with a 
roka ceremony in August this year, after Jonas popped the question in Greece.


var totalpage = '2',
			curpage = 1,
			slideval = '65452689';
		var slider65452689 = {/*Object for multiplider*/
			totalpage: '2',
			curpage: 1,
			slideval: '65452689',
			totalslide : '7'
		}With Love, From Priyanka Chopra And Nick Jonas's 'Roka' Ceremony of 7NextPrevPlay SlideshowTogether Forever18 Aug, 2018
	Actress Priyanka Chopra and singer Nick Jonas have been rumoured lovers for a long time now. The two were spotted together for the first time at the 2017 MET Gala red carpet. However, the couple denied dating rumour then.
	
	After months of speculations, the couple finally made it official with similar Instagram posts with pictures of their roka ceremony. The function took place at Priyanka Chopra's residence in Mumbai.
	
	(Image: Instagram/@priyankachopra)
Taken By Heart & Soul18 Aug, 2018
	From the US Independence Day to Goa trip, Priyanka Chopra has been spotted with beau Nick Jonas on several occasions.
	
	For the roka, the 'Quantico' star wore a lime-yellow suit by Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla with intricate embroidery. Her fiancé, on the other hand, kept it simple with a traditional, white kurta pyjama.
	
	(Image: Instagram/Filmfare)
We Are Family!18 Aug, 2018
	The Chopra and Jonas-clan got together to celebrate Priyanka and Nick's love story in traditional outfits. Bright shades and hues of pastel dominated the roka ceremony.
	
	In pic: (L-R) Siddharth Chopra, Priyanka Chopra, Nick Jonas, Madhu Chopra, Denise Miller Jonas, Paul Kevin Jonas
	
	(Image: Instagram/Priyanka Chopra)
Celebrations Galore18 Aug, 2018
	Priyanka Chopra's manager Anjula Acharia posted a few pictures with the actress and others in her family on Instagram. 
	
	Brother Siddharth Chopra and cousin Parineeti Chopra along with other members of the Chopra family could be seen in this image.
	
	(Image: Instagram/@anjula_acharia)
Sister Love!18 Aug, 2018Parineeti Chopra posted this adorable picture with a heartwarming note to her cousin and future Mrs Jonas. The actress wished the couple on their engagement, and said she couldn't have thought of a more perfect man for her sister.

(Image: Instagram/@parineetichopra)Next
According to reports, the couple will host two receptions, one in Delhi and another one in Mumbai.

Yesterday, Chopra's 'The Sky Is Pink' director Shonali Bose shared an Instgram post for the actress on the eve of her 'wedding day'.


        View this post on Instagram           I form a deep umbilical cord between me and my actors for them to perform the difficult things I require them to - rendering them emotionally naked. Very quickly I formed an intense one with you my darling Pri. And so tonight on the eve of such a massive life altering journey that you are about to embark on - I am feeling quite misty eyed. You were courageous enough to shoot such wrenching things with me mere days before one of the happiest days of your life. I will be ever grateful for that. Happy happy happy wedding day sweetheart. And all the verrrrrrry best for this new leg of life. See you very soon back on set as Ms PCJ. Chummas. @priyankachopra #theskyispink #bridetobe. #directorlove. A post shared by  Shonali Bose (@shonalibose_) on Nov 30, 2018 at 5:12am PST 


