Stephen Hawking death: Heartwarming video tribute as renowned scientist dies aged 76
A touching tribute to Professor Stephen Hawking has been released by Cambridge University following his death. The physicist died peacefully in his own home in Cambridge.

Cambridge University, where Professor Hawking had studied and worked, released the powerful tribute which displays some of his most famous quotes.

Some of  Professor Hawkings' most famous are read out in the footage. One said: “So remember to look down at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see and wonder about what makes the universe exist. Be curious.”

In a statement Professor Hawking's children, Lucy, Robert and Tim said: “We are deeply saddened that our beloved father passed away today.

“He was a great scientist and an extraordinary man whose work and legacy will live on for many years.

“His courage and persistence with his brilliance and humour inspired people across the world.

“He once said, 'It would not be much of a universe if it wasn't home to the people you love.' We will miss him forever.”

His first major breakthrough came in 1970 when he and Roger Penrose applied the mathematics of black holes to the entire universe and showed that a singularity, a region of infinite curvature in spacetime, lay in our distant past from the big bang.

The late professor was the first to set out a theory of cosmology explained by a union of the general theory of relativity and quantum mechanics.

Stephen Hawking was given a few weeks to livd shortly after turning 21, meaning he beat doctors' odds by 55 years.

The physicist was diagnosed with a rare form of motor neurone disease in 1963. The illness left him in a wheelchair and having to speak through a voice synthesiser.

Professor Hawking once estimated he worked only 1,000 hours during his undergraduate years at Oxford.

He wrote in his 2013 autobiography, My Brief History: “You were supposed to be either brilliant without effort, or accept your limitations.”
