Stephen Hawking dies at 76: 'A star just went out' - world honours renowned British physicist 

Professor Stephen Hawking, the renowned British physicist and author of A Brief History of Time, has died at the age of 76.

He died peacefully at his home in Cambridge in the early hours of Wednesday morning, his family said.

Prof Hawking, one of the world's finest scientific minds, was diagnosed with a rare form of motor neurone disease in 1964 at the age of 22 and was given just a few years to live.

He eventually became confined to a wheelchair and dependent on a computerised voice system for communication.

Despite this, he continued to travel the world giving lectures and writing scientific papers about the basic laws that govern the universe. Prof Hawking explained the Big Bang and black holes in his best-selling book A Brief History Of Time.



As tributes to the acclaimed physicist poured in from around the world, Prime Minister Theresa May said he was "a brilliant and extraordinary mind - one of the great  scientists of his generation" whose "courage, humour and determination to get  the most from life was an inspiration".

The University of Cambridge said he was "an inspiration to millions" and his work will leave "an indelible legacy".

Eddie Redmayne, who starred as Professor Hawking in The Theory Of Everything, said in a statement: "We have lost a truly beautiful mind, an astonishing scientist and the funniest man I have ever had the pleasure to meet.

"My love and thoughts are with his extraordinary family."

Stephen Hawking's ex-wife Jane Hawking, who was married to the physicist for 30 years, said she was "deeply saddened by the news of the death in the early hours of this morning of our dear Stephen".

She added: "I am glad to be able to say that he died peacefully in the comfort of his own home.

"The peace that he has found is well earned after such an extraordinary and courageous life, but we shall feel his loss keenly for a long time."

In a statement early on Wednesday, Prof Hawking's children Lucy, Robert and Tim said: "We are deeply saddened that our beloved father passed away today.

"He was a great scientist and an extraordinary man whose work and legacy will live on for many years.

"His courage and persistence with his brilliance and humour inspired people across the world. He once said, 'It would not be much of a universe if it wasn't home to the people you love.' We will miss him forever."

Prof Hawking was born on January 8 1942 in Oxford, the eldest of four children, and went on to become one of the world's most acclaimed cosmologists.

rof Hawking arrived at the University of Cambridge in 1962 as a PhD student, and rose through the ranks to become the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics, a position once held by Sir Isaac Newton, in 1979.

His most famous scientific insight concerned the arcane physics of black holes. He discovered the phenomenon which has become known as Hawking radiation, where black holes leak energy and fade to nothing.

Nasa remembered Prof Hawking as a "renowned physicist and ambassador of science", while inventor of the World Wide Web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, said: "We have lost a colossal mind and a wonderful spirit. Rest in peace, Stephen Hawking."

British astronaut Tim Peake said Prof Hawking "inspired generations to look beyond our own blue planet and expand our understanding of the universe".
'I try to lead as normal a life as possible': Prof Hawking on living with ALS

Prof Hawking was left having to use a wheelchair by the time he was 30. In 1986, aged 44, his voice was removed to save his life after an attack of pneumonia.

From then on, he spoke through a computer synthesiser on the arm of his wheelchair. 

"I am quite often asked: how do you feel about having ALS?" he once wrote. "The answer is, not a lot.

"I try to lead as normal a life as possible, and not think about my condition, or regret the things it prevents me from doing, which are not that many."



Prof Hawking was Britain's most famous modern day scientist, a genius with a razor-sharp wit who dedicated his life to unlocking the secrets of the Universe.

"My goal is simple," he once said. "It is complete understanding of the universe, why it is as it is and why it exists at all."
A Brief History of Time: A book 'that would sell on airport bookstalls'

Much of Prof Hawking's work centred on bringing together relativity - the nature of space and time - and quantum theory - how the smallest particles in the Universe behave - to explain the creation of the universe and how it is governed.

Hawking shot to international fame after the 1988 publication of A Brief History of Time, one of the most complex books ever to achieve mass appeal, which stayed on the Sunday Times best-sellers list for no fewer than 237 weeks.

He said he wrote the book to convey his own excitement over recent discoveries about the universe.

"My original aim was to write a book that would sell on airport bookstalls," he told reporters at the time. "In order to make sure it was understandable I tried the book out on my nurses. I think they understood most of it."



In 1974, he became one of the youngest fellows of Britain's most prestigious scientific body, the Royal Society, at the age of 32.

Five years later, he was appointed Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge University, where he had moved from Oxford University to study theoretical astronomy and cosmology. A previous holder of the prestigious post was the 17th-century British scientist Isaac Newton.

The news of his illness came as an enormous shock that for a time plunged the budding academic into deep despair.

But he was rescued by an old friend, Jane Wilde, who went on to become his first wife, giving him a family with three children. Jane cared for Hawking for 20 years, until a grant from the United States paid for the 24-hour care he required.
'An inspiration to millions' - University of Cambridge on Prof Hawking's 'indelible legacy'

Professor Stephen Hawking was "an inspiration to millions" and his work will leave "an indelible legacy", the University of Cambridge has said.

He retired from this position as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in 2009, and became the Dennis Stanton Avery and Sally Tsui Wong-Avery Director of Research in the department of applied mathematics and theoretical physics until his death.

An ambassador of science... a remarkable life: Tributes flood in from around world

The Prime Minister has led tributes to Professor Hawking, as scientists and celebrities hailed a man who had brought complex science to the masses.

Theresa May said: "Professor Stephen Hawking was a brilliant and extraordinary mind - one of the great scientists of his generation.

"His courage, humour and determination to get the most from life was an inspiration. His legacy will not be forgotten."
Barack Obama

The former US President tweeted a picture of himself speaking with  Prof Hawking at the White House and wrote: "Have fun out there among the  stars." 

Professor Brian Cox

The scientist and broadcaster told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Prof Hawking was "one of the greats".

"There are many good theoretical physicists who make a big contribution, but there aren't that many greats," he added.

"And by that I mean that I think there are physicists in a thousand years' time, they will still be talking about Hawking radiation, they will be using his fundamental results on black holes."



He added: "Actually, the last time I saw him at his 75th birthday party, he was talking about the new gravitational wave experiment where we've seen the collisions of black holes, and speculating that those results might be able to prove some of his theorems once and for all.

"Plus his contributions to the physics of the very early universe, so there are at least three and possibly more areas where his work will be remembered as long as there are cosmologists and that's the best you can hope for as a scientist."
Lawrence M. Krauss, theoretical physicist

The best-selling author said a "star just went out in the cosmos".

"We have lost an amazing human being. Stephen Hawking fought and tamed the cosmos bravely for 76 years and taught us all something important about what it truly means to celebrate about being human. I will miss him."
Neil deGrasse Tyson, astrophysicist

The American astrophysicist and author said Prof Hawking's "passing has left an intellectual vacuum in his wake".


Political reaction

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was among the politicians sharing tributes to Prof Hawking, saying: "Stephen Hawking inspired the world with his determination to explain the mysteries of the cosmos.

"But he also showed breathtaking courage to overcome life's adversities and a burning passion to protect our National Health Service. He will be greatly missed."

Prof Hawking was a Labour supporter but in March 2017 said Mr Corbyn had been a "disaster" as leader, adding: "His heart is in the right place and many of his policies are sound, but he has allowed himself to be portrayed as a left-wing extremist."

Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, who was among the politicians sharing tributes, said Prof Hawking had "changed the way we see the universe".

Why Professor Hawking never won the Nobel Prize

Professor Stephen Hawking's groundbreaking work earned him dozens of accolades over his lifetime, but the coveted Nobel Prize always eluded him.

His discovery in 1974 that black holes should emit radiation was initially controversial as it was widely accepted that nothing, not even light, could escape their gravity.

His theory, dubbed "Hawking Radiation", was based on mathematical concepts arising from quantum mechanics, the branch of science dealing with sub-atomic particles. It stated that this emission of radiation eventually causes black holes to "evaporate" and vanish.

Although it became widely accepted, Hawking Radiation was never proved by astronomers or physicists - if it had, it would almost certainly have earned him the Nobel Prize.

In January 2016, Prof Hawking gave a Reith Lecture broadcast on the BBC in which he joked that his lack of a Nobel Prize was "a pity".

He said: "A mountain-sized black hole would give off X-rays and gamma rays, at a rate of about 10 million megawatts, enough to power the world's electricity supply.

"It wouldn't be easy however, to harness a mini black hole - about the only way to keep hold of it would be to have it in orbit around the Earth.

"People have searched for mini black holes of this mass, but have so far not found any. This is a pity because if they had I would have got a Nobel Prize."
Graduate assistant Colin P. Williams talks with physicist Stephen Hawking at Harvard University
Graduate assistant Colin P. Williams talks to Stephen Hawking at Harvard University in 1984 Credit: Boston Globe/Getty 

After the discovery of the Higgs boson in 2013, almost five decades after British physicist Peter Higgs developed the theory in the 1960s, Prof Hawking admitted he was disappointed the so-called "God particle" had been found.

The discovery earned Prof Higgs the Nobel Prize.

The Higgs boson is theorised to give other particles mass, but Prof Hawking said in a speech at London's Science Museum: "Physics would be far more interesting if it had not been found," because it would force scientists to develop alternative solutions to the problem of mass.

He joked: "I had a bet with Gordon Kane of Michigan University that the Higgs particle wouldn't be found. The Nobel Prize cost me 100 dollars."
Unafraid of ruffling the feathers of the religious

Hawking was an outspoken commentator on life back on earth, voicing his disapproval in recent years of both the election of Donald Trump in the United States, and Britain's vote to leave the European Union.

He was unafraid of ruffling the feathers of the religious, dismissing the concept of an afterlife in a 2011 Guardian interview.

"I have lived with the prospect of an early death for the last 49 years. I'm not afraid of death, but I'm in no hurry to die. I have so much I want to do first," he said at the time.

"I regard the brain as a computer which will stop working when its components fail. There is no heaven or afterlife for broken down computers; that is a fairy story for people afraid of the dark," he added.

He was also outspoken when it came to artificial intelligence,  warning it "could spell the end of the human race.''
MND: The disease that kills a third of people in a year - Prof Hawking survived for half a century 

Professor Hawking overcame a debilitating rare disease to become one of the world's best known physicists.

He survived for around half a century after being diagnosed with motor neurone disease (MND), despite being told he had just years to live when he was diagnosed.

The disease kills a third of people within a year and more than half within two years of diagnosis, according to the Motor Neurone Disease Association.

Yet Prof Hawking was diagnosed with the condition in his early 20s and lived until he was 76. The condition is fatal, and usually progresses rapidly, affecting the brain and spinal cord.

MND is the collective name for a group of diseases that affect the nerves in the brain and spinal cord that control movement.

The condition progressively damages parts of the nervous system which leads to muscle weakness, stiffening and waste.


