BANGKOK — Indonesian officials said Saturday that nearly 400 people had been killed in a strong earthquake and a tsunami on the central island of Sulawesi. Rescue workers had yet to reach some areas thought to have been affected, and it was feared that the toll could still rise. Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman for the Indonesian disaster agency, said 384 people were confirmed dead in the city of Palu, where preparations for a beach festival had been underway when the tsunami hit Friday evening, on the heels of a 7.5-magnitude earthquake. Mr. Sutopo said 540 people were injured and 29 were still missing. But those figures applied to Palu alone, and there were other vulnerable coastal areas where communications were down. Officials had been unable to make contact with Donggala, a fishing community near Palu that was also reported to have been hit by the tsunami. Dr. Komang Adi Sujendra, the director of Undata Hospital in Palu, said in a video message posted online Saturday morning that the area had no electricity, that phone and internet service had been disrupted and that road access was limited. He sought help from the public, saying that “we hope to build a field hospital immediately.” Mr. Sutopo estimated the height of the tsunami’s waves to be about 5 meters, or 16 feet, and a cellphone video reported to have been taken in Palu showed a wave crashing over the roofs of one-story buildings. The buildings then disappear beneath the water. Mr. Sutopo said on Saturday that thousands of houses and other buildings in Palu had been destroyed, including an 80-room hotel. “We have found corpses from the earthquake as well as bodies swept up by the tsunami,” Mr. Sutopo said in a television interview. The quake was centered at a depth of six miles, about 48 miles north of Palu, according to the United States Geological Survey. The agency said preliminary analysis suggested the quake had occurred along a fault about 50 miles long. Yenni Suryani, the Indonesia country manager for Catholic Relief Services, said Saturday that it could take hours for rescuers to reach Donggala and other communities that might have been affected. Communications were down near the quake’s epicenter, and damage to a runway at the Palu airport meant flights were being limited to government and military helicopters, she said. “I’m worried about people who might have been washed away,” she said. “Several mosques, a shopping mall, and many houses have collapsed. The impact is significant, and as soon as our local partners can reach affected areas and establish communication, we’ll know more about the extent of the destruction and people’s most urgent needs.” Earlier in the day, a quake measuring 6.1 had hit Sulawesi, and authorities reported that several people had died and 10 were injured, according to The Associated Press. After the larger quake hit the region, the authorities issued a tsunami warning. They said it was lifted after the tsunami reached land. The brief video from Palu appears to have been taken from the top of a building across from the beach. The video starts by showing that coastal buildings and a major street below were already flooded, indicating that an initial wave had already hit the coast. Debris was floating in the water, but no people were visible. A large wave can be seen rolling toward the shore. As the wave struck, people on top of the building shouted and scrambled to get away from the wall of water. The water surged around a mosque, whose large green dome had collapsed, probably from the quakes. The authorities said Palu’s airport would be closed until Saturday evening because of damage from the quakes. Indonesia, a vast archipelago with about 17,500 islands, is at the margins of the Pacific Ocean, an area known as the Ring of Fire, where the collision of large blocks of the Earth’s crust causes earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. The eastern part of the archipelago sits atop numerous smaller blocks called microplates. The United States Geological Survey said the quake had occurred within one of them. Numerous earthquakes have struck the region in recent months. One of the biggest was a magnitude 6.9 earthquake that hit Lombok and the Gili islands southwest of Sulawesi on August 5, killing more than 460 people. In 2004, a magnitude 9.1 earthquake struck off the coast of the Indonesian island of Sumatra causing a massive tsunami in the Indian Ocean and killing about 230,000 people, most of them in Indonesia. In that quake, the movement was such that the tsunami waves spread throughout the ocean basin. Friday’s quake was along a different kind of fault; the tsunami it spawned was localized rather than basinwide. A 2001 study suggested that the most likely cause of tsunamis in these kinds of quakes in this part of Indonesia was underwater landslides brought on by the shaking. Palu, the city devastated by the quake and tsunami on Friday, is the capital of Central Sulawesi Province. The island of Sulawesi has been divided, at times bloodily, between Muslim and Christian populations. While Indonesia is the world’s largest Muslim-majority nation, it also has a significant number of Christians. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, there was widespread communal violence in and around Poso, a port city not far from Palu that is mostly Christian. More than 1,000 people were killed and tens of thousands dislocated from their homes as Christian and Muslim gangs battled on the streets, using machetes, bows and arrows and other crude weapons. In 2006, three Christian militants were executed by firing squad in Palu for their role in the communal violence. Christians in the area complained that fewer Muslims were held accountable for the Poso religious violence than Christians were. A government-brokered peace deal was eventually signed, but central Sulawesi remains a tense area. 