The death toll in Indonesia, which was hit with both a tsunami and earthquake this week, climbed to almost 1,500 on Wednesday, with more homes lost. For perspective on what it’s like to live through a tsunami, read these books.  LIVES OTHER THAN MY OWNBy Emmanuel Carrère256 pp. Metropolitan. (2011) Carrère was on vacation in Sri Lanka with his family in 2004 when, one morning, a tsunami struck and killed at least a quarter million people across five countries. A series of coincidences saved their lives that day: They had intended to go snorkeling, but Carrère’s son changed his mind; the group had also considered moving to a beachside bungalow, but ultimately decided against it. Carrère met many people who had lost loved ones that day, and he tells the story of one family’s search for their 4-year-old daughter’s body. There are a couple of other narrative threads, including the story of his girlfriend’s sister’s cancer diagnosis, and in a profile, The Times magazine wrote: “Through these twinnings, of names, of fates, Carrère pursues a story about loss — loss of children, loss of mothers, of the way fate vandalizes our lives — that ends up being a story about what it means to have something truly dear in your hands.” WAVEBy Sonali Deraniyagala228 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. (2013) While Carrère centers on others in his book, Deraniyagala delivers a firsthand account of her losses. Her two young sons, her husband and both of her parents were killed in the 2004 tsunami. Our reviewer called it “the most exceptional book about grief I’ve ever read.” Deraniyagala uses “immaculately unsentimental and raggedly intimate” prose to describe the aftermath of her loss. She is suicidal, and her family in Colombo, where she stays in the months after the tsunami, hide all the knives and confiscate her sleeping pills. As the book progresses, the writer’s grief “changes, but never fades,” said our reviewer, adding: “In spite of its subject matter, she manages to imbue the book with the faintest whiff of hope. Not the cheesy, cooked-up hope that comes with a lifetime guarantee of happiness, but the real kind of hope, the tiny sort that one has no choice but to cling to when everything else has been ripped away.” A TALE FOR THE TIME BEINGBy Ruth Ozeki422 pages. Viking. (2013) In this Booker Prize-shortlisted novel, the life of Ruth, an American writer living abroad, intersects with that of Nao, a 16-year-old Japanese girl. Ruth finds Nao’s diary in a Hello Kitty lunch box that washes ashore on the Canadian island off the coast of British Columbia where Ruth has recently moved. Ruth becomes further and further drawn into Nao’s story, and tries to find out her fate, suspecting that Nao was killed in a tsunami that recently hit Japan. The most tangible character in the book, according to our reviewer, is Nao, whose voice is “by turns breezy, petulant, funny, sad and teenage-girl wise.” 