Curfew in Pulwama, Baramulla; life paralysed by strike for 73rd day

SRINAGAR, Sep 19: Curfew was today clamped in Pulwama and Baramulla districts while it remained in force in some other areas of the Valley including in parts of Srinagar, in view of the separatists call for a protest march to the three districts. Normal life also remained disrupted in the Valley for the 73rd straight day.
Reports said that a 19 year old girl Khusboo Jan, daughter of Mohammad Hussain, a resident of Gadafpora Shopian died to cardiac arrest. A report alleged that the girl suffered heart attack due to tear-smoke shelling. But police denied it. A police spokesman in a statement said, “Some people have posted on social networking site that a girl namely Khushboo daughter of Mohammad Hussain Bhat of Gaddapora-Shopian died of heart attack after clashes between police/security forces and protestors in Vehil Shopian. In this regard, the district administration Shopian has clarified that Gaddapora, the home of the said girl, is about seven kilometres away from the Vehil, where the protestors set on fire a school and also indulged in stone pelting. As per the hospital authorities the girl died in all likelihood because of cardiac arrest. The death of the girl is no way related to the incident that happened at Vehil. These posts are as such bereft of facts and are as such clarified.”
However, some people alleged that the girl was part of the protest when government forces resorted to tear-smoke shelling to disperse people. They added that due to shelling she suffered heart attack and breathed her last. Over a dozen people were injured in the day long clashes
A police official said that curfew has been imposed in Pulwama and Baramulla districts today, while it remains in force in Shopian and five police station areas of downtown (interior city) along with Batamaloo in uptown Srinagar. He said the curbs have been imposed to maintain law and order in view of the separatists call for a march to the three districts of Baramulla, Pulwama and Srinagar.
The official said restrictions on the assembly of people continued to remain in force in the rest of the Valley. The separatists, in the weekly protest programme, had called for a march to the three districts Baramulla (in north Kashmir), Srinagar (in central Kashmir) and Pulwama (in south Kashmir) today.
They had asked the people of north Kashmir districts of Bandipora and Kupwara to march towards Baramulla, people of south Kashmir districts of Shopian, Kulgam and Anantnag to march to Pulwama and people of Central Kashmir districts of Ganderbal and Budgam to march towards Srinagar.
Meanwhile, normal life continued to remain paralysed in Kashmir for the 73rd consecutive day due to restrictions and separatist sponsored strike. The separatists, who are spearheading the current agitation in the Valley, have extended the protest programme till September 22.Shops, business establishments and petrol pumps continued to remain shut, while public transport was off the roads. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions also continued to remain shut.
Despite official curfew clashes erupted in Vihil village of Shopian district after people defied curfew to participate in a march called by the resistance leadership.
Reports said that a school caught fire after a teargas shell landed inside it during the clashes. They said that High School in Chatwatan village was gutted in the fire.
Locals from Panzipora Tarzoo area of Sopore town in North Kashmir’s Baramulla district alleged that security men set 13 motor-cycles on fire and completely damaged eight other bikes and private vehicles. “A peaceful pro-freedom rally was going on in Panzipora ground at Tarzoo when government armed forces emerged on the scene and without any provocation fired pellets and tear-smoke shells on the participants. The forces set ablaze the tents and also set ablaze the 13 motor-cycles while causing damage to other 8 bikes and vehicles. While retreating from the area, the CRPF and Police fired upon four power transformers at Krankshivan area and damaged them,” the locals alleged adding that the agitated people from adjacent villages hit to roads and staged a massive protest against forces action. The reports said that people pelted stones on the forces while in the ensuing clashes 15 persons were injured. When contacted a police official refuted the claims made by the people saying that no motor-cycle or vehicle was set ablaze. He said that protesters resorted to stone-pelting while one of the stone-pelters was arrested on spot.
Earlier, a rally was organized by people at Boitnegu Sopore on Saturday night.
Meanwhile, a heritage school building was gutted in mysterious fire at Lal Chowk area of South Kashmir’s Anantnag district. A police official said the building of Islamia Hanfia Educational Institute at Lal Chowk completely gutted in fire. “The cause of the fire is not known yet. We have registered a case to ascertain the facts,” he said.
A police official said that barring the incidents at Panzipora and Shopian, the situation remained peaceful throughout Valley.


