Photographers call Deepika Padukone bhabhi and she is not happy. Watch video
Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone made a striking entry at their third and final wedding reception at the Grand Hyatt in Mumbai last night. While she took our breaths away in a stunning Zuhair Murad red gown, he looked dapper in a tuxedo by Rohit Gandhi and Rahul Khanna.As soon as the couple arrived at the venue, the photographers stationed outside went into a frenzy and began cheering for their 'baba' Ranveer and 'bhabhi' Deepika.However, it looks like the actress is not too fond of the 'bhabhi' tag. In a video doing the rounds on social media, she is heard requesting the photographers, "Bhabhi mat bulao na!"View this post on InstagramBABA with our bhabhi !!!!!!! #deepveer #deepveerwedding #deepikapadukone #deepveerkishaadi #deepveerreception #deepveerforever #ranveersingh #bollywoodstylefile #bollywoodlife #bollywoodA post shared by  BollywoodKaGyaan (@bollywoodkagyaaaan) on Dec 1, 2018 at 11:38pm PST
The lavish reception hosted by Ranveer and Deepika last night was a starry affair which saw the bigwigs of Bollywood, including Shah Rukh Khan, Amitabh Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Katrina Kaif, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Malaika Arora, Arjun Kapoor and Hrithik Roshan, let their hair down and party till the wee hours.Ranveer and Deepika got married at the picturesque Lake Como in Italy over two days - November 14 and 15. The couple had two ceremonies to honour each other's customs - a Konkani-style wedding on November 14 and a traditional anand karaj on the following day.In an interview with a magazine, Ranveer revealed that he was ready to settle down with Deepika three years ago and was only waiting for a green signal from her.When asked about why they chose Lake Como as the destination for their wedding, Ranveer revealed that it was Deepika's wish. "Whatever she wished, I wanted her to have it. That's the first step in being the husband of the millennium. Whatever her vision of getting married, I wanted her to realise it. Whatever she wanted, it was done exactly in that manner," he said.The actor added, "She deserves every bit of it. I too deserve happiness and my happiness comes from her happiness. It's that simple."ALSO SEE | Amitabh Bachchan dances to Jumma Chumma with Ranveer at Mumbai receptionALSO WATCH | Deepika Padukone marries Ranveer Singh in Italy