Deepika and Ranveer are married. All that happened at Sindhi wedding
Their on-screen romance began on the sets of Sanjay Leela Bhansali's Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram Leela in 2013. And exactly five years to the release of their first film together, Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh tied the knot in a traditional Sindhi-Punjabi style wedding at Lake Como in Italy.After a serene and sombre Konkani wedding at Villa del Balbianello in Lake Como on November 14, Ranveer and Deepika decided to go all out with band, baaja, baaraat and some naach gaana for their Sindhi wedding.Dressed in shades of red for their Sindhi-Punjabi wedding, Ranveer and Deepika decided to make it a memorable affair. While the lovebirds zeroed in on an Italian villa for their grand wedding, it was a desi affair.ANAND KARAJAfter the couple got married according to Konkani tradition, Ranveer and Deepika had an Anand Karaj on November 15 wherein a priest from Amritsar was flown in for the ceremony. A source was quoted as telling a daily, "A makeshift gurudwara was erected inside the premises. A priest was flown down from Amritsar for the ceremony that began in the morning and went on till afternoon."FULL COVERAGE: DEEPIKA AND RANVEER WEDDING DECORATIONS AND GUESTSRanveer and Deepika didn't leave any stone unturned to make their wedding a dreamy affair. It is no secret that the theme of Sindhi-Punajbi wedding was red. From outfits to decorations, everything was in shades of red.Keeping in with the theme, Villa Del Balbianello, the venue of the wedding, was adorned with almost 8000 red roses.Moreover, nearly 10 large boats were deployed to bring the guests from the CastaDiva Resort And Spa to the wedding venue.RANVEER'S GRAND ENTRY ON MY NAME IS LAKHANKeeping up with his flamboyance, Ranveer made a grand entry on My Name Is Lakhan song at his wedding. After that, the entire baaraat danced to songs like Chunari Chunari, Tamma Tamman, Tune Maari Entriyaan. Ranveer being a huge fan of Govinda also shook a leg to Meri Pant Bhi Sexy.If the baraat couldn't get over the 90s Bollywood chartbusters, singer Harshdeep Kaur added to the excitement with her live performance at Ranveer and Deepika's wedding.SABYASACHI FOR RANVEER AND DEEPIKASabyasachi Mukerjee has become a favourite with Bollywood stars, especially when it comes to weddings. And Deepika and Ranveer, too, chose to wear Sabyasachi for their big day.If Ranveer looked regal in a Kanjeevaram sherwani, Deepika made a resplendent bride in a red and gold lehenga. But it was Deepika's veil that was the highlight of her bridal trousseau. Keeping with Sindi traditions, the veil was presented to Deepika by Ranveer's family. The intricately designed chunri had 'Sada Saubhagyavati Bhava' inscribed on it in gold.ELABORATE LUNCHAccording to a report in a leading daily, the lavish wedding was followed by an elaborate lunch with many Sindi delicacies such as dal pakwan, koki and sev barfi.ALSO READ | Ranveer's father welcomes Deepika to family: Yeh deewani Bhavnani ho gayiALSO READ | Deepika and Ranveer share official wedding photos and break the internetALSO WATCH | Deepika and Ranveer get married: All that happened at Lake Como