Arjun Kapoor to Ranveer about Deepika: Baba you got your boo boo for life now
For the past six years, Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone made their fans weak in the knees with their scorching chemistry in films like Goliyon Ke Rasleela Ram Leela and Bajirao Mastani. This magnetic attraction flowed into their personal lives as well, and they became one of the most popular couples in B-Town.Much to the excitement of their fans, they tied the knot at picturesque Lake Como, in Italy. The celebrations didn't end there, as Ranveer and Deepika hosted two receptions for friends and family on November 21 and 28.The couple hosted the third glitzy reception at the Grand Hyatt in Mumbai last night, which was attended by the who's who of Bollywood, including Shah Rukh Khan, Amitabh Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Katrina Kaif, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Malaika Arora, Arjun Kapoor and Hrithik Roshan.Close friend Arjun Kapoor was present at the reception and he shared a photo with the caption, "Issa look boy !!! Twist N Twirl !!! When Baba edits Baba ka Photo then u gotta post it... thank u @ranveersingh & btw Baba u got ur boo boo for life now @deepikapadukone !!! Suit by @sshomme Glasses - @gucci & thank you @nitashagaurav gaurav for this beautiful @etro hat !!! #hatsnotoff #moochkipooch #deepveer."Issa look boy !!! Twist N Twirl !!! When Baba edits Baba ka Photo then u gotta post it... thank u @ranveersingh & btw Baba u got ur boo boo for life now @deepikapadukone !!! Suit by @sshomme Glasses - @gucci & thank you @nitashagaurav gaurav for this beautiful @etro hat !!! #hatsnotoff #moochkipooch #deepveerA post shared by  Arjun Kapoor (@arjunkapoor) on Dec 2, 2018 at 12:47am PST
Videos and pictures from the merry bash have been going viral on the internet.In a hilarious inside video from the party, Ranveer revealed the "key to success in life". He is heard saying, "The key to success in life is to say yes to everything that she says. So when baby says, '(imitating Deepika) Baby, change the vibe of music', I have to oblige. Baby, this one is for you..."View this post on InstagramVideo "The Key To Success in Life is to say Yes to everything that she says so when babe says'babe change the vibe of music I have to oblige babe this one is for you"-Ranveer at his Reception LOL!Every Man's Problem @deepikapadukone @ranveersingh #DeepVeer #DeepVeerkishaadi #DeepVeerReception #MrandMrsRanveersinghA post shared by  #DeepVeer (@deepveerkishaadi) on Dec 1, 2018 at 1:20pm PST
Recently, in an interview with a magazine, Ranveer revealed that he knew "almost immediately" that Deepika was the woman he wanted to marry. "Six months into the relationship, I knew she was the one. I nurtured the relationship accordingly. It's been six years now. She's too good, too lovely," he said."I knew all too well that this is the woman I'm going to marry. This is the woman who would become the mother of my children. I've been thinking about marriage seriously for almost three years now. I was just waiting, I told her the minute you say so, we'll do it," the actor added.Ranveer and Deepika exchanged marital vows over two days at the breathtaking Villa del Balbianello at Lake Como in Italy. The couple had a Konkani-style wedding on November 14, followed by a traditional anand karaj ceremony on November 15.ALSO SEE | Amitabh Bachchan dances to Jumma Chumma with Ranveer at Mumbai receptionALSO WATCH | Deepika Padukone marries Ranveer Singh in Italy