Deepika-Ranveer Mumbai reception: Who were not invited and why
Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone's wedding and post-wedding festivities have kept their fans on their toes with excitement. The couple who tied the knot on November 14 and 15 at picturesque Lake Como, held a grand bash for their friends from Bollywood last night (December 1).To be sure, most of the bigwigs from B-Town were present, including Shah Rukh Khan, Anushka Sharma, Katrina Kaif, Varun Dhawan, Amitabh Bachchan and family, Sidharth Malhotra, Jacqueline Fernandez, Rekha, Karisma Kapoor, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Ayushmann Khurrana and Tahira Kashyap.However, there were some who were conspicuous by their absence. Our own source at the bash told us that Sushant Singh Rajput and Kangana Ranaut were not invited to the party.Sushant Singh Rajput and Kangana Ranaut have had their own rifts with the starry couple.Early in 2017, there were rumours that Sushant Singh Rajput was offered Befikre initially, but the film later went to Ranveer. This was said to be his main reason for parting ways with YRF (Yash Raj Films).Sushant cleared the air and said that he had never been offered Befikre, and that even if he had, he had no intention of doing the film."Let me clear it once and for all. I was never offered Befikre. But had I been offered, I wouldn't have done it. I know it's easier to decide after the results are out but I have a reason. If the same production house is offering me a niche film like Detective Byomkesh Bakshy (2015), I would do it because Dibakar Banerjee (director) has a different interpretation of the old classic; and I would do a Paani where Shekhar Kapur (film-maker) will be raising a very important and immediate issue," he had said.Sushant had some harsh words to spew about Befikre as well. "If Befikre was representing the new-age youth of India and romance as what it was claiming, it would have been great irrespective of the box-office numbers. But unfortunately, it didn't do that and hence I would not be interested."Before Befikre, there were rumours that Sushant had been offered Goliyon Ke Rasleela Ram Leela, but that had gone to Ranveer as well. Befikre was the final straw, and since then Sushant is said to have had shared cold vibes with Ranveer.On the other hand, Kangana Ranaut and Deepika are not exactly the best of friends. It started in 2014, when Deepika won the Best Actress for Happy New Year, but dedicated it to Kangan for Queen. Kangana had responded that while she appreciated the gesture, she wished Deepika had told her in person. Kangana was even more miffed that Deepika had never called her up and praised her performance.After a series of misunderstandings, the two had patched up. Kangana attended Deepika's Piku screening. However, Deepika was not able to attend Kangana's Tanu Weds Manu Returns screening, which upset the latter.Furious Kangana said at the time, "I did extend an invite to Deepika, but I never got a response. I have always been supportive of my contemporaries and will continue to be, but it is hurtful when you don't get the same kind of support."She did not even invite Deepika for the film's success bash.Later, when Deepika was asked about this, she dismissed it as saying that it was completely irrelevant, to which Kangana retaliated in another interview saying, "Really?! She said that? Then why she makes these desperate calls to paint a parallel reality and sends never ending cunning texts to invite me for her trials and parties? Well, she seems rather invested in the irrelevant stuff."Later in 2017, Kangana stood up for Deepika, when she was attacked for her choice of outfits at an award show.Yet, things still seem to be rocky between the two.ALSO READ | Deepika Padukone-Ranveer Singh Mumbai reception: Saif-Kareena and Bachchans steal the showALSO READ | Deepika-Ranveer Mumbai reception: Ishaan and Sara make heads turnALSO WATCH | Ranveer and Deepika's Bengaluru reception was a regal affair