 [][][\nIn this March 29, 2016 photo, journalists look a image of Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was arrested in March 2016, during a press conference by Pakistan's army spokesman and the Information Minister, in Islamabad, Pakistan. \xa0 | Photo Credit: AP ][Former India Naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav was sentenced to death in a Field General Court Martial on April 10, 2017 after three-and-a-half months of trial. He has been accused of espionage and working for the India\u2019s external intelligence agency, Research and Analysis Wing (R&amp;AW).
 He was arrested from Balochistan on March 3 last year. , The issue has snowballed into a flash point for India-Pakistan relations. , India has been repeatedly requesting consular access to Mr. Jadhav while also demanding a certified copy of the charge sheet as well as the judgment. Pakistan has so far denied India\u2019s request 13 times, Mr. Gautam Bambawale, Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad told reporters in the Pakistan capital.
 In the wake of this, India has cancelled maritime talks with Pakistan that was scheduled for April 17. It is likely that more steps could follow based on Pakistan\u2019s response to India\u2019s latest request for consular access for Mr. Jadhav, according to The Hindu's Special Correspondent.\xa0 , Read on for an in-depth look into the ongoing case, starting from who Mr. Jadhav is, the events leading up to his arrest in Pakistan and where India-Pakistan relations are headed from here. , \nPakistani journalists watch a video message of imprisoned Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav at a press conference in Islamabad. File \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n ,  Pakistan is committed to implementing the decision of the International Court of Justice(ICJ) in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case, a senior Pakistani official said as the country\u2019s delegation left for the Hague on Friday for the oral proceedings in the case that will commence at the world court from February 18.
 Indian national Jadhav, 48, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. India moved the ICJ in May the same year against the verdict.
 A 10-member bench of the ICJ on May 18, 2017, had restrained Pakistan from executing Jadhav till adjudication of the case.
  , \nKulbhushan Jadhav case: World court to hold four-day public hearing from February 18, 2019\n, Pakistan\u2019s Attorney General Anwar Mansoor will lead the Pakistani delegation at the ICJ while Director General South Asia Mohammad Faisal will lead the Foreign Office side, a senior official told Dawn.
 The ICJ has set a timetable for the public hearing in the case from Febraury 18 to 21 in The Hague and Harish Salve, who represents India in the case, is expected to argue first on February 18.
 The English Queen\u2019s Counsel Khawar Qureshi will make submissions on February 19 from Islamabad\u2019s side. Then India will reply on February 20 while Islamabad will make its closing submissions on February 21, the daily said.
 It is expected that the ICJ\u2019s decision may be delivered by the summer of 2019.
 \u201cWe are fully prepared with our strongest evidence being the valid Indian passport recovered from Commander Jadhav with a Muslim name,\u201d the official told the Dawn, adding that Pakistan was committed to implementing the decision, irrespective of what decision came from the ICJ.
 In reply to a question about Iran, the official said the Pakistan government was convinced that Iran had no role in Jadhav\u2019s episode though he remained there for some time. \u201cIndia wants to drag Iran into this dispute but we will not let it happen,\u201d he said.
 In New Delhi, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Raveesh Kumar on Thursday declined to go into the details of the case.
 \u201cThe oral proceedings on the International Court of Justice are commencing on February 18. India will present its case before the court. Since the matter is subjudice it is not appropriate for me to state our position in public.Whatever we have to do, we will do at the court,\u201d he said in response to a question.
 Pakistan claims that its security forces arrested Jadhav from the restive Balochistan province on March 3, 2016 after he reportedly entered from Iran. However, India maintains that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy. Jadhav\u2019s sentencing had evoked a sharp reaction in India.
 India had approached the ICJ for \u201cegregious\u201d violation of the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, 1963, by Pakistan in Jadhav\u2019s case.
 \nIn this picture released by Pakistan Foreign Office, death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav speaks with his mother and wife through a glass screen at its building in Islamabad on December 25, 2017. Photo: Twitter/@ForeignOfficePk\n\xa0 ,  The International Court of Justice will hold a four-day public hearing in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case at The Hague starting February 18, 2019, a statement issued by the principal judicial organ of the United Nations said on October 3.
 Jadhav, 47, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on spying charges in April 2017. India moved the ICJ in May 2017 against the verdict. The world court has halted Jadhav\u2019s execution on India\u2019s appeal pending the final verdict by it.
  Both India and Pakistan have already submitted their detailed pleas and responses in the world court.
  , \nKulbhushan Jadhav: the story so far\n,  \u201cThe hearings will be streamed live and on demand (VOD) in English and French on the Court\u2019s website as well as on UN Web TV, the United Nations online television channel,\u201d said the press release issued by the ICJ.
  Pakistan says its security forces arrested Jadhav from Balochistan Province in March 2016 after he reportedly entered the country from Iran.
  In its submission to the ICJ, Pakistan had stated that Jadhav is not an ordinary person as he had entered the country with the intent of spying and carrying out sabotage activities.
  India denies all the charges and maintains that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy and that he has no links with the government. , \nPakistani journalists watch a video message of imprisoned Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav at a press conference in Islamabad. File \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n , Pakistan will file its second counter-memorial on July 17 in the International Court of Justice (ICJ) on the conviction of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court in April last year on charges of espionage and terrorism, a media report said on July 12.
 On January 23, the ICJ gave a timeline to both Pakistan and India for filing another round of memorials in the case.
 Pakistan\u2019s memorial will be in response to pleadings filed by India in the Hague based ICJ on April 17.
 Top attorney Khawar Qureshi, who pleaded Pakistan\u2019s case at the initial stage, briefed Prime Minister Nasirul Mulk about the case last week, The Express Tribune\xa0 reported.
 Attorney General for Pakistan Khalid Javed Khan and other senior officials also attended the meeting.
 According to the daily, the counter-memorial has been drafted by Mr. Qureshi. After the submission of the second counter-memorial, the ICJ will fix the matter for hearing, which is likely to take place next year.
 \n, \nKulbhushan Jadhav: the story so far\n, A senior lawyer, who has expertise in international litigations, told the daily that there was no chance of hearing the case this year.
 Even the hearing of other matters has already been fixed until March/April next year. Therefore, the Jadhav case would be listed in summer next year, he added.
 India moved the ICJ in May last year after Jadhav, 48, was sentenced to death.
 On May 18, a 10-member bench of the ICJ restrained Pakistan from executing Jadhav till the adjudication of the case.
 In its written pleadings, India had accused Pakistan of violating the Vienna Convention by not giving consular access to Jadhav. It argued that the convention did not say that such access would not be available to an individual arrested on espionage charge.
 He was on a special mission, says Pak.
 In response, Pakistan, through its counter-memorial on December 13 last, told the ICJ that the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations 1963 applied only to legitimate visitors and did not cover clandestine operations.
 Pakistan said that \u201csince India did not deny that Jadhav was travelling on a passport with an assumed Muslim name, they have no case to plead.\u201d India did not explain how \u201ca serving naval commander\u201d was travelling under an assumed name.
 \u201cSince Jadhav was on active duty, it is obvious that he was a spy sent on a special mission.\u201dGiving false identity to Jadhav, sending him for espionage and funding of terrorist activities were all some of the reasons that disentitled India from invoking the ICJ's jurisdiction, Pakistan said.
 India terms trial by military court farcical, India had been maintaining that the trial of Jadhav by a military court in Pakistan was \u201cfarcical\u201d.
 Pakistan claims that its security forces arrested Jadhav from the restive Balochistan province on March 3, 2016 after he reportedly entered from Iran.
 However, India maintains that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy. His sentencing evoked a sharp reaction in India.
 India had approached the ICJ for \u201cegregious\u201d violation of the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, 1963, by Pakistan in the case.
 \nIn this March 29, 2016 photo, journalists look a image of Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was arrested in March 2016, during a press conference by Pakistan's army spokesman and the Information Minister, in Islamabad, Pakistan. \xa0 | Photo Credit: AP ,  After being sentenced to death on the charge of espionage, Pakistani authorities will now put alleged Indian spy Kulbhushan Jadhav on trial on terrorism and sabotage charges.
 A report published in Dawn quoted an unnamed official as saying that Pakistan has sought repeated access to 13 Indian officials to ascertain information in the Jadhav case but India has remained uncooperative. He said Mr. Jadhav had multiple cases against him in which he had been indicted on terror and sabotage related charges and those cases are progressing. He did not say if a new trial will be held by a military tribunal or civilian anti-terrorism court.
 Mr. Jadhav was arrested from the Balochistan province in 2016. He was awarded death penalty by a military tribunal last year and his appeal is pending with military chief General Javed Qamar Bajwa. Pakistan claims that Mr. Jadhav was a serving Indian Navy official recruited by R&amp;AW to supervise terrorist activities in Balochistan and Karachi. India on the other hand claimed that Mr. Jadhav was a retired Naval official doing business in Iran's Cha Bahar port.
 International Court of Justice had stayed Mr. Jadhav's execution after India approached ICJ claiming Pakistan has violated international conventions by denying consular access to Mr. Jadhav. , Mr. Jadhav was captured on March 3, 2016, from Balochistan. In April last year he was sentenced to death by a Field General Court Martial (FGCM) after being found guilty of espionage under Section 59 of Pakistan Army Act (PAA) 1952 and Section 3 of Official Secret Act of 1923.
 Pakistan on December 25 arranged a meeting between Mr. Jadhav and his mother and wife. The meeting perceived as a goodwill gesture ended in a diplomatic spat between the two countries over the strict security checks of his mother and wife underwent.
 Pakistani authorities believe that a conviction for Mr. Jadhav on terrorism will cement its case in ICJ.
 \nKulbhushan Jadhav\n\xa0 , \xa0, The International Court of Justice (ICJ) has fixed April 17 and July 17 as deadlines for India and Pakistan, respectively, for the filing of the written pleadings in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case. A 10-member bench of the ICJ on May 18 last year restrained Pakistan from executing Mr. Jadhav till adjudication of the case.
 According to a statement issued by the principal judicial organ of the UN, the ICJ authorised the submission of a reply by India and of a rejoinder by Pakistan in the Jadhav case.
 \u201cThe Court fixed 17 April 2018 and 17 July 2018 as the respective time-limits for the filing of these written pleadings,\u201d said the statement issued last week.
 It said the ICJ made its decision taking into account the views of the parties and the circumstances of the case.
 Pakistan claims its security forces arrested Mr. Jadhav from its restive Balochistan province on March 3 last year after he reportedly entered from Iran.
 India, however, maintains that Mr. Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Indian Navy.
 Pakistan had rejected India\u2019s plea for consular access to Mr. Jadhav at the ICJ, claiming that New Delhi wants the access to get the information gathered by its \u201cspy\u201c.
 In its counter-memorial submitted to the ICJ last month, Pakistan had said the provision of such an access under the Vienna Convention is only for legitimate visitors and not for spies.
 However, Pakistan facilitated a meeting of Mr. Jadhav with his mother and wife in Islamabad on December 25.
 In the pictures issued by Pakistan, Mr. Jadhav was seen sitting behind a glass screen while his mother and wife sat on the other side. They spoke through intercom.
 Later, India accused Pakistan of disregarding cultural and religious sensibilities of Mr. Jadhav\u2019s family members under the pretext of security by removing the mangal sutra, bangles and bindi of his mother and wife before they could meet him.
 After the meeting, Pakistan issued a video message of Mr. Jadhav in which he is seen thanking the Pakistan government for arranging a meeting with his wife and mother.
 Earlier this month, Pakistan again released another video of Mr. Jadhav in which he purportedly claimed that he has not been harmed in custody, prompting a strong reaction from India, which called it a \u201cpropagandistic exercise\u201d by Islamabad that simply carried no credibility.
 \nIn this picture released by Pakistan Foreign Office, death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav speaks with his mother and wife through a glass screen at its building in Islamabad on December 25, 2017. Photo: Dr. Mohammad Faisal/Twitter \xa0 , A day after the meeting of former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav with his mother and wife in Islamabad, India sharply criticised Pakistan for stage-managing what it called an exercise that \u201clacked credibility\u201d and held in an \u201catmosphere of coercion.\u201d, \u201cWe note with regret that the Pakistani side conducted the meeting in a manner which violated the letter and spirit of our understandings,\u201d said Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Raveesh Kumar, after Mr. Jadhav\u2019s family held a series of meetings with External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj and other government officials.
 Listing all the government\u2019s reasons for its unhappiness with the conduct of the meeting, Mr. Kumar said the women were intimidated, separated from Indian officials, harassed by the Pakistani media and even made to change attire, remove their mangal sutras (nuptial necklaces), bangles and shoes \u201cunder the guise of security precautions.\u201d, Mr. Kumar was particularly critical of the fact that Pakistani officials had refused to return the shoes worn by Mrs. Jadhav and warned against any \u201cmischievous intent\u201d in this regard.
 Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) said the accusations were \u201cbaseless allegations and twists.\u201d, \u201cIf Indian concerns were serious, the guests or the Indian Deputy High Commissioner should have raised them during the visit, with the media, which was readily available, but at a safe distance, as requested by India,\u201d MoFA spokesperson Mohammad Faisal said in a statement released on Tuesday night.
 On Monday, the Pakistan government facilitated the meeting between Mr. Jadhav and his mother Avantika and wife Chetana at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Islamabad, the first such meeting since the announcement of Mr. Jadhav's arrest in March 2016 on charges of terrorism. Later, he was convicted in a military court and sentenced to death, and his appeal for clemency is now under process. , India has officially requested a family meeting several times. Although the Indian Deputy High Commissioner J.P. Singh was present at the interaction at the MoFA, both Pakistan and India made it clear this did not constitute "consular access" for which a case is being fought at the International Court of Justice at The Hague.
 According to the MEA, Mr. Jadhav's mother was also "prevented" from speaking in her mother tongue Marathi with her son and interrupted repeatedly, while they were separated by a glass partition throughout the meeting. The MEA said the government was worried about Mr. Jadhav's medical condition.
 "From the feedback we have received of the meeting, it appears that Shri Jadhav was under considerable stress, speaking in an atmosphere of coercion. Most of his remarks were clearly tutored and designed to perpetuate the false narrative of his alleged activities in Pakistan. His appearance also raises questions of his health and wellbeing, " the MEA spokesperson said.
 The Jadhav family returned to India from Islamabad on Tuesday and met Ms. Swaraj at her residence, along with other officials, including Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar and Mr. J.P. Singh, who had accompanied them. They were reportedly debriefed by other MEA officials later.
 The Pakistan government has claimed that facilitating the meeting of Mr. Jadhav and his family for "humanitarian reasons" was proof that it had "honoured its commitments". At a press conference, the MoFA spokesperson had also played a taped statement by Mr. Jadhav thanking the government for the meeting. , Mr. Jadhav's family has not made any public comment yet.
 Five friends of Kulbhushan Jadhav, who is on death row for alleged espionage in Pakistan, organised a motorbike rally here in his support on the eve of the visit of his mother and wife to meet him in Islamabad.
 Nearly 100 riders took part in Sunday\u2019s rally, holding \u201cJustice for Kulbhushan\u201d placards. The two-wheelers covered the entire N.M. Joshi Marg.
 \u201cWe conducted the bike rally to express solidarity with Jadhav\u2019s mother and wife. All his friends want to show their support to him and his entire family during this predicament so that they don\u2019t feel that they are alone in this fight,\u201d said Tulsidas Pawar, Mr. Jadhav\u2019s childhood friend and resident of Prithvi Nandan Society at Lower Parel, where the former naval officer grew up.
 \u201cWe have been friends since childhood and live in the same locality ever since we were in school. He was born here and till 2000, he used to live on the first floor of the police quarters right opposite the Prithvi Nandan Society,\u201d he said.
 Mr. Pawar said Mr. Jadhav was a student of Ruia College. When he was in Class XI, he filled up the form for entry to the National Defence Academy and after he was selected, his family and friends dropped him at the Pune institution.
 \n, \u201cDuring the holidays, he used to visit us. Later, after his marriage in 2000, his family shifted to Powai, Hiranandani, and the visits became less frequent. On March 3, 2017, as we got to know that he had been captured from Balochistan and was accused of espionage, we were shocked. We all did not even know when he retired from his position and how he got arrested,\u201d Mr. Pawar said.
 Mr. Pawar said that as students, they always spoke about starting a business of their own after retirement.
 They later found out that he had gone for the purpose of business and was arrested in Iran. Iran was an important point of business for him and he had been dealing in scrap. Even after he was arrested, the Pakistan government did not have any evidence against him, he said.
 After eight days, they got the news that he would be sentenced to death.
 The family and his friends are fighting to get him back.
 Arvind Singh, an engineer, another childhood friend of Mr. Jadhav, said: \u201cIn our [housing] society, he used to live right opposite our building at the police quarters. We used to play together whenever we had the chance to. We got to know through the media on March 3, 2017 and at that time we decided to spread the message through various initiatives such as banners that our friend is innocent and could never do anything like this. After that we started online and offline campaigns. They comprised candle marches, and signing of petitions.\u201d, \u201cWe recently conducted a bike rally because there were still people in this area who did not know much about the arrest. Now the entire area knows about what we are fighting for. We are really grateful for the way the International Court of Justice has intervened in this matter and given a verdict in our favour. Now our hopes have gone up,\u201d Mr. Singh said.
 \nKulbhushan Jadhav. File photo\n\xa0 , The wife and the mother of Kulbhushan Jadhav, a prisoner on death row for alleged espionage, will meet him here on Monday, Pakistan\u2019s Ministry of Foreign Affairs has said.
 They will arrive here by a commercial flight and leave the same day after the meeting, it said. India\u2019s Deputy High Commissioner J.P. Singh will accompany them to the meeting.
 \u201cIndia informs that the mother and wife of Commander Jadhav will arrive by a commercial flight on 25 Dec and leave the same day. Indian DHC [Deputy High Commissioner] in Islamabad will be the accompanying diplomat,\u201d Foreign Office spokesman Mohammad Faisal tweeted on Saturday night. Earlier, media reports said Pakistan had asked India to convey the plan of Jadhav\u2019s family at the earliest. Separately, Mr. Faisal said the meeting would take place at the Ministry and its photo and video footage would be released. They were allowed the meeting in light of \u201cIslamic traditions and on humanitarian grounds,\u201d he said.
 On December 20, Pakistan gave visas to Jadhav\u2019s wife and mother.
 Jadhav, 47, was sentenced to death by a military court in April on the charges of espionage and terrorism. Thereafter, India moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in May. The ICJ halted the execution, pending its verdict.
 Pakistan denied India consular access to Jadhav saying it was not applicable in the cases of espionage. It said Jadhav was not an ordinary person as he entered the country for spying and sabotage. Pakistan says its security forces arrested Jadhav, alias Hussein Mubarak Patel, from its restive Balochistan province on March 3 last year after he entered the country from Iran. India, however, maintains that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy.
 \nKulbhushan Jadhav was sentenced to death in April this year under charges of espionage and terrorism.\n\xa0 , The Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi on Wednesday issued visas to the wife and mother of alleged Indian spy Kulbhushan Jadhav to allow them to meet him on December 25, Foreign Office spokesman Dr Mohammad Faisal tweeted.
 Earlier this month, Pakistan said that it would allow them to meet him on humanitarian grounds. Islamabad also allowed them to be accompanied by an Indian embassy official as requested by New Delhi.
 On November 10, Pakistan had offered to arrange a meeting between Mr. Jadhav and his wife. A Note Verbale to this effect was sent to the Indian High Commission in Islamabad. But India insisted that Mr. Jadhav's mother be included as well, with an Indian High Commission official present during the meeting. Pakistan accepted both demands.
  , \nKulbhushan Jadhav: the story so far\n, Mr. Jadhav, who India claims was a former Navy official, was arrested by Pakistan law enforcement agencies on March 3, 2016 after he allegedly crossed over into Pakistan from Iran.
 His video confession was released by Pakistani military last year in which he stated that he was tasked by RAW to plan, coordinate and organise espionage, terrorist and sabotage activities aimed at destabilising and waging war against Pakistan. India rejected the allegations that Mr. Jadhav had any connection with RAW.
 Mr. Jadhav was sentenced to death by a military court, and his clemency appeal is pending with the Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa for the past four months. Pakistani officials said that there are still two forums of appeal left for Mr. Jadhav even if the Army Chief refuses his mercy appeal.
 India went to the International Court of Justice against the conviction, and secured a stay on May 18. Pakistan earlier this week filed a counter-memorial in the ICJ.
 \nLegal tangle: No date has been fixed for the case to resume in the International Court of Justice.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: \nJERRY LAMPEN\n ,  Pakistan on Wednesday filed a counter-memorial before the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against India\u2019s plea to prevent execution of alleged Indian spy Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been sentenced to death by a military court in April.
 India had won a stay from the ICJ on Jadhav\u2019s execution on May 18 following Pakistan\u2019s refusal to allow consular access to the Indian High Commission in Islamabad despite repeated requests.
 No date has been fixed for the case to resume in the ICJ. Pakistani officials associated with the case said it would take at least weeks, if not months, before the ICJ takes up the Kulbhushan case.
 Access granted to kin, Last week, Islamabad said it would allow Mr. Jadhav\u2019s wife and mother to meet him on December 25. The Pakistani authorities also allowed the presence of an Indian High Commission official at the meeting as requested by New Delhi during the meeting. , Pakistani officials believe that by allowing a meeting with the family and an Indian High Commission official, India will lose its main claim for approaching the ICJ. In its counter-memorial Pakistan rejected India\u2019s stance that it had violated international norms by rejecting consular access to the Indian High Commission.
 Allegations denied, The counter-memorial stated that Jadhav, 46, is a RAW operative involved in espionage and subversive activities and supporting terrorists to conduct attacks in the restive Balochistan province. India has denied the allegations. , Pakistan has referred to the bilateral consular access agreement of 2008, which says that in case of arrest, detention, or sentence made on political or security grounds, each side may examine the case on the merits. The agreement was signed in Islamabad by former High Commissioner of Pakistan to India Shahid Malik and his Indian counterpart, Satyabrata Pal, on May 21, 2008.
 Jadhav, who India claimed was a former naval official, was apprehended by Pakistani law enforcement agencies on March 3, 2016 after he allegedly crossed over into Pakistan from Iran.
 His video confession was released by Pakistan in which he stated that he was tasked by RAW to plan, coordinate and organise espionage, terrorist and sabotage activities aimed at destabilising and waging war against Pakistan.
 Remaining options, Jadhav was sentenced to death by a military court while the Army Chief upheld his conviction. His clemency appeal has been pending before the Army Chief for four months. Pakistani officials said that there were still two forums of appeal left for Jadhav even if the Army Chief refuses his mercy appeal.
 The officials added that Jadhav had three appeals left before his sentence is executed and his execution is not apparent any time soon.
 \nPeople hold posters of former officer Kulbhushan Jadhav and light fire crackers as they celebrate the International Court of Justice order on Jadhav, in Ahmadabad on May 18, 2017. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n , Pakistan on Thursday directed its High Commission in New Delhi to issue visas to the wife and mother of Indian death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav, official sources said.
 The directive was issued by the Foreign Ministry after it decided last week to allow Jadhav\u2019s family to meet him in Islamabad on December 25.
 Adequate security measures would be taken for complete safety of Jadhav\u2019s family and an Indian High Commission official would be allowed to accompany them, the sources said.
 \n, \nKulbhushan Jadhav: the story so far\n, Jadhav, 47, was sentenced to death by a military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April and India moved the ICJ in May against the order. The ICJ halted his execution on India\u2019s appeal pending the final verdict by it.
 Pakistan claims its security forces arrested Jadhav alias Hussein Mubarak Patel from restive Balochistan province on March 3 last year after he reportedly entered from Iran. India, however, maintains that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy.
 Pakistan on Wednesday rejected India\u2019s plea for consular access to Jadhav at the ICJ, claiming that New Delhi wants the access to get the information gathered by its \u201cspy\u201d.
 Pakistan has repeatedly denied India consular access to Jadhav on the ground that it was not applicable in cases related to spies.
 \nKulbhushan Jadhav. PTI\n\xa0 , Pakistan on Friday said that it will allow the wife and mother of alleged Indian spy, Kulbhushan Jadhav, to meet him on humanitarian grounds on December 25.
 It allowed them to be accompanied by an Indian embassy official as requested by New Delhi.
 Foreign Office spokesman Mohammad Faisal told a media briefing that Islamabad had earlier offered to allow Mr. Jadhav\u2019s wife to meet him last month.
 But New Delhi requested that his mother and an Indian embassy official also be permitted to travel with her, and Pakistan conceded both pleas. Mr. Jadhav, who India claims was a former Navy official, was apprehended by Pakistan law enforcement agencies on March 3, 2016, after he allegedly crossed over. Mr. Jadhav, who was produced before the media in Pakistan in March 2016, was accused of sabotage and terrorism against the coastal cities of Pakistan.
 After a swift and controversial trial by a Pakistani military tribunal, he was awarded the death sentence on April 10.
 His clemency appeal is pending with Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa for the past four months. Pakistani officials said there were still two forums of appeal left even if the Army chief rejects his mercy plea.
 India went to the International Court of Justice against the conviction, and secured a stay on May 18.
 \u201cWe received the response from the Pakistani government to the request made by India on November 13, 2017 to allow both mother and wife of Mr. Jadhav to meet him,\u201d said Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Raveesh Kumar in New Delhi.
 Officials described the Pakistani move which comes a week before the next hearing of the case at The Hague\u2019s International Court of Justice, as \u201cpositive and humanitarian.\u201d, \n, Government of Pakistan has conveyed that they will give visa to the mother and wife of Kulbhushan Jadhav. /1, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj took to social media to announce the development.
 She said, \u201cGovernment of Pakistan has conveyed that they will give visa to the mother and wife of Kulbhushan Jadhav. Earlier Pakistan had given visa only to the wife. On this, we asked Pakistan to give visa to the mother as well. We also raised concern about their safety and security in Pakistan.\u201d, Ms. Swaraj said that she conveyed the Pakistani decision to Mrs. Avantika Jadhav, the mother.
 Officials said that they are not considering the \u201cpurely humanitarian\u201d gesture as equivalent to granting of consular access that India has been demanding from the moment Mr. Jadhav was produced before the Pakistani media.
 (With inputs from Kallol Bhattacherjee in New Delhi), \nA file picture of Kulbhushan Jadhav.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: PTI , The former Navy official Kulbhushan Jadhav\u2019s mother and wife will travel to Islamabad if Pakistan gives sovereign guarantees for their safety during the visit, India said on Thursday.
 Explaining the contents of a letter regarding the visit of Mr. Jadhav\u2019s family members, the Ministry of External Affairs said India has also said an official of the Indian High Commission should be allowed to accompany them.
 \u201cIn our response, we have conveyed that the wife of Mr. Jadhav would like to travel along with her mother-in-law for the meeting. We have also sought sovereign guarantees from the Government of Pakistan to ensure the safety, security and wellbeing of the wife and mother of Mr. Jadhav and that they shall not be questioned, harassed or interrogated during their visit and stay in Pakistan. We have further asked that a diplomat of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad shall be allowed to accompany them at all times, including during the meeting,\u201d said spokesperson Raveesh Kumar.
 The Hindu had earlier reported about India\u2019s response to the humanitarian gesture of the Pakistan government to allow the wife to meet Mr. Jadhav, who has been in the custody of the Pakistan military.
 Unconfirmed reports suggested that Pakistan is at present evaluating the Indian proposal.
 Pakistan\u2019s decision came months after India urged it to allow Mr. Jadhav\u2019s mother to meet him.
 The gesture is a significant point in the case which began in March 2016 when Pakistan arrested the former Navy officer and presented him to the world at a dramatic press conference.
  , \nKulbhushan Jadhav case: India denied consular access again\n, The Ministry of External Affairs had applied more than a dozen times for consular access to Mr. Jadhav but Islamabad has not obliged it. The Ministry said on Thursday that India will not give up its campaign to free Mr. Jadhav.
 \u201cLet me underline that such a meeting (between Mr. Jadhav and his family members) offer does not absolve Pakistan of the violations of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and Human Rights and not following the due process in treating Mr. Jadhav who remains incarcerated in Pakistan and faces death sentence through a farcical process and on concocted charges,\u201d said the spokesperson. \u201cWe are determined to pursue all measures with full vigour so as to secure the final release of an innocent Indian,\u201d he added.
 Mr. Jadhav has the option of putting in mercy petitions to the highest offices of the Pakistani state but the government of Islamabad is already under criticism for allegedly being soft on the Indian captive who in his \u2018video-taped confession\u2019 stated that his role was to ensure sabotage and violence in Balochistan province.
 In another Balochistan-related issue, the MEA spokesperson said the government is not aware of any request for application that the exiled Baloch leader Brahumdagh Bugti was supposed to file. Mr. Bugti announced on social media on Wednesday that Switzerland had rejected his application for asylum after seven years of consideration even as his followers took to the social media urging India to grant him asylum.
 The Hindu had reported in September 2016 that Mr. Bugti had initiated the process of seeking asylum in India in order to seek greater freedom for his activism to \u2018free\u2019 Balochistan.
 \nIn this March 29, 2016 photo, journalists look at an image of Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, during a press conference by Pakistan's army spokesman in Islamabad. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n , India has responded to Pakistan\u2019s proposal allowing former Indian naval official Kulbhushan Jadhav to meet his wife on humanitarian grounds, a senior MEA official confirmed on Saturday.
 The confirmation of the Indian response came hours after Pakistan announced the receipt of the Indian letter, even as both sides prepared for the next date of the case in December at the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
 \u201cWe can confirm that the letter carrying our response to the Pakistani offer on the humanitarian gesture to Kulbhushan Jadhav has been sent. It is a sensitive matter for the family and the two countries,\u201d said the official, explaining that India has taken note of the fact that Pakistan has kept the content of the letter confidential and so far has not revealed it to the media on the Pakistani side.
 Spokesperson for Pakistan\u2019s Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mohammad Faisal said at his weekly news briefing that India had responded to the Pakistani humanitarian proposal on allowing Mr. Jadhav\u2019s wife to meet him.
 He also said Islamabad was \u201cconsidering\u201d India\u2019s request to let Kulbhushan Jadhav\u2019s mother meet him, apart from his wife.
 The proposal came in the backdrop of humanitarian moves regarding prisoners in each other\u2019s custody that were undertaken recently.
 The Pakistani offer came months after MEA had asked for a meeting between Mr. Jadhav and his mother in Pakistan. Though diplomats on both sides are tight-lipped about the way ahead, unconfirmed reports have indicated that both sides have begun to discuss the modalities and venue of the meeting. Reports also suggest that India might want Mr. Jadhav\u2019s mother also to travel along with his wife.
 The timing of the humanitarian gesture is significant as it comes weeks before the International Court of Justice takes up the case once again. As per the decision of the court, the case will come up on December 13, which was the deadline set for Pakistan to file the counter-Memorial.
 (With inputs from PTI), \nA sketch of Kulbhushan Yadav by Gurukul students of art at Lalbaugh, on April 15, 2017 in Mumbai as a mark of protest against Pakistan\u2019s death sentence on him.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: \nGetty Images\n , As officials of the Foreign Office, the Law Ministry, the Interior Ministry and the military met in the office of Attorney-General Ashtar Ausaf last month, they had two proposals on their hands. One was to allow consular access for Kulbhushan Jadhav, the Indian national sentenced to death on spying charges, and the other was to grant permission to Jadhav\u2019s wife for a meeting with him.
 After much deliberation, it was decided that as a goodwill gesture, Jadhav\u2019s wife will be allowed to meet him. The diplomatic note in this regard was sent to the Indian High Commission on November 10.
 The proposal to allow consular access was hotly debated, a government representative told The Hindu, requesting anonymity. \u201cIt was argued that if consular access is allowed, it will destroy India\u2019s case at the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which is based on the premise that Pakistan was not granting consular access,\u201d he said. \u201cBut a military representative opposed it by saying that the matter is of national security and granting consular access to the Indian government will not be a wise decision.\u201d, The ICJ ordered in May not to carry out Jadhav\u2019s execution, pending a final decision.
 Jadhav was arrested by Pakistani authorities in March last year. His video-taped confessional statement was released by the military in which Jadhav stated that he was working for the Indian intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing. He was subsequently tried for espionage and conspiracy against Pakistan in a military court and sentenced to death. India dismisses the charges and insists that Jadhav was a retired Navy officer.
 Allah Nazar, chief of the Balochistan Liberation Front (BLF), was accused of working with Jadhav. Nazar is reportedly hiding in Afghanistan. His family was briefly detained on the Afghan frontier last month while attempting to cross the border. The BLF has claimed several attacks on security forces and civilians. In the latest, 15 people were killed in an attack in Turbat on November 15. Pakistan has also asked Iran to investigate how Jadhav operated out of its territories for a few years.
 As Pakistan prepares its case for the ICJ, scheduled to begin in January, the execution of Jadhav seems unlikely in the near future. \u201cEven if Army Chief General [Qamar Javed] Bajwa rejects Jadhav\u2019s mercy petition, he can appeal in High Court. After that, he can also file a mercy plea with the President,\u201d a government source said. Pakistan will submit its \u201ccounter-memorial\u201d to the ICJ by mid-December. The Pakistani side is relying on its argument that the case is a matter of national security and should not be seen as a bilateral diplomatic issue.
 The Pakistani side fears that the trial of Jadhav by the military court remains one of the weak points in its case. Pakistan claims that Jadhav was a serving naval officer in contradiction to India\u2019s stand that he had retired much earlier. \u201cIf India manages to prove in the ICJ that Jadhav was not a serving naval officer, then our case becomes weak. We will have to grant consular access to him,\u201d an official associated with preparing the \u2018counter-memorial\u2019 said.
 In Pakistan, Jadhav has also become a political issue. Opposition parties have accused the government of being soft on the case. The government dismisses such criticism. Foreign Minister Khawaja Asif made a sensational claim in September during his visit to the U.S. that Afghanistan offered Pakistan to exchange Jadhav with the mastermind of the 2014 Army Public School attack in Peshawar in which 144 people, mostly children, were killed. However, he said Pakistan refused the offer.
 (Mubashir Zaidi writes for The Hindu and is based in Karachi), \xa0, \nIn hope: Childhood friends and neighbours of Kulbhushan Jadhav pray during the International Court of Justice verdict in the case in May.\n\xa0 ,  Mumbai: The friends and family of childhood friend of former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who is on death row in a Pakistani prison, expressed happiness over that country\u2019s decision to allow Mr. Jadhav to meet his wife, Chetna, in prison. \u201cWe, his friends and family, are happy. Our expectations have risen with this decision. We take it as a positive step and believe he is not being harmed,\u201d Tulshidas Pawar said on Saturday, while demanding he be released at the earliest. , He added, \u201cAfter his wife meets him, we will get a fair idea about his physical and mental condition. From the beginning, we have been saying that Kulbhushan is not involved in the kind of activities for which he has been convicted.\u201d Mr. Pawar and Mr. Jadhav have been friends since their childhood days in Prithvi Nandan Society, Lower Parel. He, and other friends, had started a signature campaign for Mr. Jadhav\u2019s release.
 On Friday, Pakistani authorities said they would allow Mr. Jadhav to meet his wife, months after India\u2019s request to Islamabad to grant a visa to the former Navy officer\u2019s mother, Avantika, on humanitarian grounds. Pakistan Foreign Office spokesperson Mohammad Faisal said in a statement, The Government of Pakistan has decided to arrange a meeting of Commander Kulbhushan Jadhav with his wife, in Pakistan, purely on humanitarian grounds. A Note Verbale to this effect has been sent to the Indian High Commission in Islamabad today.\u201d Mr. Jadhav was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court in April on charges of espionage and terrorism. in May, the International Court of Justice had halted his execution on India\u2019s appeal. On June 22, Mr. Jadhav had filed a mercy petition before Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa.
 Pakistan claims to have arrested him from Balochistan province on March 3 last year after he reportedly entered that country from Iran. However, India maintains that Mr. Jadhav was abducted in Iran, where he had business interests after retiring from the Indian Navy. , \nKulbhushan Jadhav\n\xa0 ,  Pakistan on Friday offered India a meeting of Commander Jadhav with his wife on humanitarian grounds, "The Government of Pakistan has decided to arrange a meeting of Commander Kulbhushan Jhadav with his wife, in Pakistan, purely on humanitarian grounds. A Note Verbale to this effect has been sent to the Indian High Commission in Islamabad, today'" a foreign office statement said.
 Kulbushan Jhadav which India claimed was a its former Naval official was apprehended by Pakistan law enforcement agencies on March 3, 2016 after he allegedly crossed over into Pakistan.
 His video confession was released by Pakistan in which he stated that he was tasked by RAW to plan, coordinate and organize espionage, terrorist and sabotage activities aimed at destabilizing and waging war against Pakistan.
 Kulbhushan Jhadav was sentenced to death by a military court while Army Chief upheld his conviction. His clemency appeal is pending before the army chief for the past four months. Pakistani officials said that there are still two forums of appeal left for Jhadav even if the army chief refuses his mercy appeal.
 Pakistan has reportedly denied consular access to Jhadav.
 India went to International Court of Justice against Jhadav conviction after which the sentence was stayed by the ICJ. , \nFile photo of retired Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav. \xa0 | Photo Credit: PTI , Pakistan on Wednesday designated a former Chief Justice to the International Court of Justice to be its Judge in the Kulbhushan Jadhav Case.
 A Foreign Office statement said the appointment of Justice Tassaduq Hussain Jillani had been communicated to the ICJ.
 His appointment was made after military, civil and legal officers over the weekend discussed the course of action. Pakistan has been refusing consular access to India despite repeated requests.
 Indian Naval official Kulbhushan Jhadav was arrested by Pakistani authorities from Balochistan province last year. After a military trial, he had been sentenced to death. His appeal is pending before the Army Chief General Qamar Bajwa.
 Justice Jillani served as Chief Justice of Pakistan from December 11, 2013 until July 5, 2014. The procedures of the ICJ allow a party to nominate a Judge Ad hoc if there is no Judge of the nationality in it.
 Judge Bhandari from India sits as a Judge of the Court. A Judge Ad hoc is treated as having the same authority as any of the sitting Judges. The Court will now notify India the appointment.
 \nJournalists look at an image of Kulbhushan Jadhav during a press conference in Islamabad on March 29, 2016. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n ,  Pakistan has started the process to file its plea in response to India\u2019s memorial (representation) submitted in the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against the death sentence of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav.
 Mr. Jadhav, a 46-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was captured in Balochistan in March 2016 by Pakistan security forces and tried in a military court which sentenced him to death for \u201cespionage and subversive activities\u201d.
 The ICJ had asked Pakistan to submit its written response or memorial by December 13 before the court could start further proceedings.
 According to Pakistan Foreign Office sources, Attorney-General Ashtar Ausaf Ali on October 6 presided over a meeting of law experts and officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other relevant departments to discuss the line of arguments in the ICJ. \u201cWe will forcefully defend our position which is based on the fact that Jadhav is a serving Indian spy tasked to carry out subversive activities in Pakistan,\u201d the sources said.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Ali told the Dawn that they had decided to hold weekly meetings in order to review the situation and \u201cto finalise Islamabad\u2019s point of view and convert it into an appropriate rejoinder to India\u2019s allegations\u201d. He said they were in touch with relevant stakeholders, including Khawar Qureshi who had pleaded Pakistan\u2019s case at the initial stage, to formalise a robust reply refuting all allegations levelled against Pakistan. The daily reported that the attorney-general\u2019s office is also busy documenting the case and collecting instances of the \u201catrocities and human rights violations committed by India\u201d in Jammu and Kashmir.
 On October 5, the Pakistan Army said it is close to a decision on the mercy petition of Mr. Jadhav. \u201cKulbhushan Jadhav\u2019s mercy petition has come to the Army Chief. There is a process, everything goes through a process but I can assure that it is near finalisation and we will give you news about this very soon,\u201d Army spokesman Major General Asif Ghafoor said.
 Mr. Jadhav\u2019s death sentence was confirmed by Pakistan\u2019s Army Chief General Qamar Bajwa on April 10. He has filed an appeal with the Army Chief to seek clemency, which is still pending. After India approached the ICJ, a 10-member bench on May 18 restrained Pakistan from executing Mr. Jadhav till adjudication of the case. Mr. Jadhav\u2019s sentencing had evoked a sharp reaction in India.
 India has warned Pakistan of consequences and damage to bilateral ties if the \u201cpremeditated murder\u201d was carried out. In its application, India had also informed the ICJ that it learnt about the death sentence against Mr. Jadhav from a press release. India acknowledges that Mr. Jadhav had served with the Indian Navy but denies that he has any connection with the government. It also said that Mr. Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran.
 India has also handed over to Pakistan an appeal by Mr. Jadhav\u2019s mother, initiating a process to get his conviction overturned. , \nFile photo of retired Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav. \xa0 | Photo Credit: PTI ,  India on September 29 cited Afghanistan NSA\u2019s statement rejecting Pakistan\u2019s claim that it had received a proposal to swap Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav for a terrorist, to assert that it was another addition to Islamabad\u2019s \u201cimaginary lies\u201d.
 The reaction came after Pakistan Foreign Minister Khawaja Muhammad Asif suggested that he received the proposal to swap Mr. Jadhav with the terrorist, lodged in an Afghan jail, during his meeting with an NSA. However, Mr. Asif did not identify the NSA or the terrorist who was to be swapped.
 Contradicting Mr. Asif\u2019s claim, the office of the Afghan National Security Adviser Mohammad Haneef Atmar issued a statement saying there was no mention or reference of India or an Indian citizen during his meeting with the Pakistani foreign minister on September 21 in New York.
 Mr. Asif had told a gathering at the Asia Society in New York on September 26 that Pakistan received a proposal to swap Mr. Jadhav for a terrorist who carried out the horrific 2014 Peshawar school attack and is now jailed in Afghanistan.
 Reacting strongly, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Raveesh Kumar said the statement by the office of the Afghan NSA suggested that the claim by Mr. Asif was one more addition to the long list of \u201cimaginary lies\u201d by Pakistani establishment. The statement by Mr. Atmar\u2019s office said the two sides, during the meeting, had detailed discussions on variety of issues including bilateral cooperation.
  \u201cThe two sides also discussed sanctuaries in Pakistan and exchange of the top five Taliban leaders detained in Pakistan. There was no mention or reference of India or an Indian citizen,\u201d it said, adding Mr. Atmar was hopeful that the record of the meetings are reported accurately and facts are not \u201cmisconstrued\u201d.
  The MEA spokesperson also referred to Pakistan\u2019s use of a \u201cfake picture\u201d in the United Nations General Assembly recently, adding the Pakistan Foreign Minister\u2019s claim was another lie. \u201cIf you have gone through the press release (issued by Afghan NSA\u2019s office), it seems this is one more addition to the long list of imaginary lies as stories which have been created by Pakistani establishment,\u201d said Mr. Kumar.
 Mr. Jadhav, a 46-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was in April 2017 sentenced to death by Pakistan\u2019s Field General Court Martial on charges of his alleged \u201cinvolvement in espionage and sabotage activities\u201d against Pakistan. In a hearing of the case on May 18, a 10-member bench of the International Court of Justice restrained Pakistan from executing Mr. Jadhav.
 The Pakistan Taliban had claimed responsibility for the gruesome Peshawar school attack in 2014 in which nearly 150 people, mostly school children, were killed. , \nIn this March, 2016 picture, Pakistani journalists watch a video showing India\u2019s Kulbhushan Jadhav, arrested on suspicion of spying, during a press conference in Islamabad.\n\xa0 , Pakistan received a proposal to swap Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav for a terrorist who carried out the horrific 2014 Peshawar school attack and is now jailed in Afghanistan, Foreign Minister Khwaja Muhammad Asif has claimed.
 Mr. Asif, however, did not specify the name of the terrorist and the National Security Advisor who made the proposal.
 \u201cThe terrorist who killed children in APS [Army Public School] in Peshawar is in Afghan custody. The National Security Adviser [NSA] told me that we can exchange that terrorist with the terrorist you have, which is Kulbhushan Jadhav,\u201d Mr. Asif said at the Asia Society in New York on Wednesday.
 He discussed Pakistan\u2019s vision for and approach towards regional peace and development during his conversion with author and journalist Steve Coll.
 Mr. Asif said Pakistan had suffered grievously from conflict and instability in Afghanistan.
 \u201cUnless this cycle is reversed, we would continue to bear the brunt. No country, therefore, has a larger stake in seeing peace and stability return to Afghanistan than Pakistan. Regrettably, the situation in Afghanistan is getting worse,\u201d he said.
 Mr. Jadhav, a 46-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by Pakistan\u2019s Field General Court Martial in April for his alleged \u201cinvolvement in espionage and sabotage activities\u201d against Pakistan.
 Mr. Asif said there was no military solution to Afghanistan. Pakistan had done all it could to facilitate a political settlement.
 \u201cWe have also done all that we could to make sure that the Pakistani soil is not used against any country,\u201d he claimed.
 \u201cHowever, there are obviously clear limits to what we can do. We cannot take responsibility for Afghanistan\u2019s peace and security and be asked to achieve what the combined strength of some of the most powerful and richest countries could not accomplish,\u201d he said.
 India has accused Pakistan of violating the Vienna Convention by repeatedly denying consular access to Mr. Jadhav.
 In a hearing of the case on May 18, a 10-member bench of the Inyernational Court of Justice (ICJ) restrained Pakistan from executing Mr. Jadhav.
 Pakistan has said the Indian national would not be executed until he has exhausted his mercy appeals.
 The Pakistan Taliban had claimed responsibility for the gruesome Peshawar school attack in 2014 in which nearly 150 people, mostly school children, were killed.
 \nFormer foreign minister Zafarullah Khan (left), is the only Pakistani to have been appointed a judge of the ICJ in the country\u2019s history. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nThe Hindu Archives\n ,  The Pakistan government has begun consultations over the nomination of an ad-hoc judge for the Kulbhushan Jadhav case being heard at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) with an ex-attorney general and a former Jordanian premier emerging as the top contenders, a media report said today.
 India had moved the Hague-based ICJ against Jadhav\u2019s death penalty handed down by a Pakistani military court. The ICJ had on May 18 restrained Pakistan from executing the death sentence.
 Pakistan government\u2019s functionaries have started consultations for the nomination of an ad-hoc judge, The Express Tribune reported, citing sources.
 During the tenure of ousted prime minister Nawaz Sharif, former Supreme Court judge Khalilur Rehman Ramday was approached, but he declined the nomination, the report said.
 Sources were quoted by the daily as saying that the Attorney General for Pakistan\u2019s (AGP) office has recommended the names of senior lawyer Makhdoom Ali Khan, and former Jordanian prime minister, Awn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh to the Prime Minister\u2019s Office for the nomination of one name as an ad-hoc judge.
 Khasawneh served as an ICJ judge for over a decade, while Khan, a former Attorney General who is seen as the favourite for the job, also has experience in international arbitration cases, having represented eight different countries in international courts.
 The nomination of the ad-hoc judge will be finalised after getting inputs from the Foreign Office and the military establishment, the sources said, adding that earlier, government functionaries had also considered the name of former chief justice of Pakistan Tassaduq Hussain Jillani.
 An official was quoted as saying that the name of the ad- hoc judge will be finalised next month, soon after the Indian side files its documents.
 Meanwhile, Pakistan Bar Council (PBC) representative Raheel Kamran Sheikh has called upon the government to seek Parliament\u2019s approval on the appointment of the ad\u2014hoc judge.
 Only one person has previously been appointed as ICJ judge in Pakistan\u2019s history - former foreign minister Zafarullah Khan, who was appointed in 1954 and later became the president of the court.
 Yaqub Ali Khan and Sharifuddin Pirzada both served as ad-hoc judges, as did Zafarullah. , \nFile photo of former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav \xa0 | Photo Credit: PTI , Pakistan on Thursday said it was studying a visa application of the mother of Kulbhushan Jadhav to meet him, who was sentenced to death by a military court on the charges of espionage and terrorism. India had requested Pakistan to allow Avantika Jadhav to meet her son.
 \u201cPakistan is considering the Indian request for the grant of visa to the mother of Kulbushan Yadav,\u201d Pakistan Foreign Office spokesperson Nafees Zakaria was quoted as saying by state-run Radio Pakistan.
 However, the Ministry of External Affairs said India had not got any information on change in visa and consular positions in the Jadhav case.
 Mr. Zakaria\u2019s remarks came two days after External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj said she had written a \u201cpersonal letter\u201d to Adviser to the Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz asking for the approval of Ms. Avantika\u2019s visa application so that she may travel to Pakistan. The Minister also said that Mr. Aziz did not even respond to her letter.
 \u201cI wrote a personal letter to Mr Sartaj Aziz for the grant of her visa to Pakistan. However, Mr Aziz has not shown the courtesy even to acknowledge my letter,\u201d she had tweeted.
 However, Mr.Zakaria said that asking for recommendations from Mr. Aziz to grant visas was against \u201cdiplomatic norms\u201d, Dawn newspaper reported. He also accused New Delhi of imposing \u201cconditions\u201d for the approval of medical visas of Pakistani patients travelling to India.
 Pakistan claims its security forces arrested Jadhav from its restive Balochistan province on March 3 last year after he reportedly entered from Iran.
 However, India maintains that he was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy. Pakistan has dismissed India\u2019s consular access request to Jadhav more than 15 times. India has accused Pakistan of repeatedly violating the Vienna Convention by doing so.
 India approached the International Court of Justice in May seeking provisional stay of Jadhav's execution, which was granted.
 \xa0, \nKulbhushan Jadhav was sentenced to death in April this year under charges of espionage and terrorism.\n\xa0 , Pakistan on Sunday again rejected India\u2019s request for consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former Indian naval officer who was sentenced to death for espionage and terrorism by a Pakistani military court in April this year.
 His mercy petition is pending with Pakistani Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa. India denied the charges made out against Jadhav, and moved the International Court of Justice against the conviction and got a stay on the execution. Pakistan insists that the reprieve is temporary.
 \n, \nKulbhushan Jadhav: the story so far\n, Pakistan has turned down at least five Indian requests for consular access to Jadhav since his arrest in Balochistan province last year. India\u2019s External Affairs Ministry on Saturday again requested for consular access to Jadhav when both countries exchanged lists of prisoners under a 2008 agreement.
 In response to yet another Indian request, Pakistani Foreign Office spokesman Nafees Zakariya said India\u2019s attempt to equate the Jadhav case with those of civilian prisoners and fishermen was a travesty of logic. \u201cJadhav is a serving Indian naval officer and sent to Pakistan by the RAW for espionage, terrorism and subversive activities that resulted in the loss of many innocent lives and damage to property,\u201d he said in a statement in Islamabad.
 He said Pakistan ensured effective implementation of the consular access agreement with India. But he blamed India for deliberately delaying release of civilian Pakistani prisoners , \u201cFive Indian prisoners who completed their sentences were repatriated on June 22. In contrast, 20 Pakistani civilian prisoners who have completed their sentences still await their repatriation, while consular access to 107 Pakistani fishermen and 85 Pakistani civilians is till now pending,\u201d the Pakistani Foreign Office spokesman said.
 \n, \nKulbhushan Jadhav: Indian \u2018agent\u2019 in Pakistan\n, The spokesman also blamed India for delaying the release of juvenile Pakistani prisoners Babar Ali and Ali Raza for almost a year despite their release by Indian courts. He said Pakistan implemented the 2008 agreement in letter and in spirit and expected India to follow suit.
 He also alleged that India set \u201cimpossible\u201d conditions for medical visas for Pakistani patients.
 \u201cUnder the directives of the Prime Minister, arrangements are being made for treatment and operations to be carried out in Pakistan.\u201d , \xa0, \nA differently-abled person participates in a signature campaign against the death sentence to former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav by Pakistani military court, in Nagpur. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nS. Sudarshan  , The Pakistani military announced on Thursday that former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav had filed a mercy petition with Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa. Mr. Jadhav was sentenced to death by a military court in April for espionage and terrorism. The International Court of Justice in May halted the execution on India\u2019s appeal.
 In a statement by the Inter Services Public Relations, military spokesman Major General Asif Ghafoor said Mr. Jadhav had filed the mercy plea with a confessional statement that he was involved in subversive activities in Balochistan.
 Mr. Jadhav was said to have been arrested last year from Balochistan. \u201cToday, I genuinely feel, after the time spent in Pakistan, very ashamed and seek pardon of the acts and sins and crimes I have committed here against the nation and people of Pakistan,\u201d he was quoted as saying.
 Mr. Jadhav\u2019s second \u2018confessional\u2019 video was posted on the Facebook page of the military\u2019s public relations wing, ISPR.
 India lashed out at Pakistan for the \u201clack of transparency\u201d in Mr. Jadhav\u2019s trial and mercy petition process, and indicated that Pakistan\u2019s release of the video was an \u201cattempt to introduce prejudice\u201d in the ongoing International Court of Justice appeal.
 \u201cIndia is determined to pursue the matter in ICJ and is confident that justice will be done without being affected by these unwarranted and misleading steps taken by Pakistan,\u201d official spokesperson Gopal Baglay said.
 Here is the video of Mr. Jadhav's alleged confession released by the Pakistan military on Thursday, \n, Here is the full text of the alleged confession as released by the Pakistan military, (With inputs from Suhasini Haidar), \nKulbhushan Jadhav\n\xa0 ,  Pakistan\u2019s Attorney-General Ashtar Ausaf Ali will lead a team to the International Court of Justice (ICJ) at The Hague on June 8 for a meeting of \u201cagents\u201d from India and Pakistan with the court\u2019s president to discuss the future proceedings in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case.
 The decision to send the Attorney-General was taken at a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on National Security on Tuesday to discuss Pakistan\u2019s strategy in the case, Dawn reported. National Assembly Speaker Ayaz Sadiq chaired the meeting.
 During the meeting of \u201cagents\u201d, the dates for subsequent hearings and submission of documents related to the case India has brought against Pakistan over the death sentence given to Indian national Jadhav following a \u201csecret\u201d trial will be discussed, the report said.
 Pakistan is also likely to indicate its intention to nominate an ad-hoc judge for the case.
 The ICJ statutes provide for a state party to a case, which does not have a judge of its nationality on the bench, to choose a person to sit as an ad-hoc judge in that case.
 The parliamentary committee took up the issue after India was granted provisional measures by the ICJ on May 18 - restraining Pakistan from executing Jadhav, 46, who had been convicted of espionage and sentenced to death by a Pakistan military court.
 India approached the ICJ citing that it had been repeatedly denied consular access to Jadhav in violation of the provisions of the Vienna Convention.
 The Attorney-General also briefed the participants of the meeting about the Pakistan government\u2019s strategy for the case.
 The committee members were reportedly not satisfied by the explanations given by the government\u2019s legal team about the case at the last meeting.
 The National Assembly speaker told the media that he was satisfied with the briefing by the Attorney-General yesterday.
 Senator Sherry Rehman of the Pakistan Peoples Party, however, disputed Speaker Sadiq, saying that everything that was shared with the parliamentary committee members were \u2018open source\u2019 information and the replies were unsatisfactory.
 \u201cThey have committed a lot of mistakes,\u201d Rehman said.
 Yesterday\u2019s meeting was the second time the committee had met on the Jadhav case. It will meet again on June 15. , Ten days after the International Court of Justice in Hague stayed the execution of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav accused of espionage, Pakistan claimed on Tuesday that it had fresh evidence against him.
 In a brief statement on Monday, Foreign Office spokesman Nafees Zakaria said Jadhav provided \u201cactive intelligence\u201d regarding terrorist attacks in Pakistan.
 Attorney-General Ashtar Ausaf, in an interview with Dawn TV, said the fresh evidence against Jadhav, would further boost Pakistan\u2019s case in the ICJ. However, no details were given about the \u201cfresh intelligence\u201d.
 Pakistan is expecting the ICJ to take up the case at the earliest. , Jadhav, 46, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of \u201cinvolvement in espionage and sabotage activities\u201d against the country. , The ICJ on May 18 stayed his execution.
 (With PTI inputs), \nMoazzam Ahmad Khan, head of Pakistan's delegation and ambassador to the Netherlands, makes a brief statement after hearing the World Court's verdict in The Hague, Netherlands, Thursday, May 18, 2017.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n ,  Pakistan on Thursday said the ruling by the International Court of Justice in the case of Kulbhushan Jadhav, the Indian national sentenced to death by a military court for espionage, did not change the status of the case even as Opposition party leaders attacked the government\u2019s handling of the matter at The Hague.
 The UN court has ordered Pakistan not to execute Mr. Jadhav pending the outcome of a case filed by India.
 Islamabad said it attended the hearing out of its respect for the court and driven by the conviction that the challenge can be made via appearance and not by abstaining from the process. \u201cPakistan attended because of its conviction that the only way to resolve all outstanding issues is through peaceful means. We are confident that India would not be able to hide the subversive activities it is trying to carry out through its agents like Commander Jadhav,\u201d stated an official statement by the Attorney General\u2019s office. , The AG\u2019s office interpreted the interim order by ICJ as maintaining the status quo in the case. \u201cThe court has clearly underscored that the provisional measures are without prejudice to the final determination of the merits and jurisdiction of the case.\u201d , It added: \u201cThese provisional measures have no bearing whatsoever on the final decision of the court.\u201d , New legal team, Sartaj Aziz, senior adviser to Prime Minister, said the government will constitute a new legal team to fight the case. Responding to the criticism by opposition parties, he said Pakistan could not have abstained from the hearing as any such move would have given advantage to India.
 Meanwhile, Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf slammed Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif for the adverse ICJ ruling. \u201cPakistan sent a junior lawyer, totally unprepared to defend our case. This spineless government is incapable of standing up to India\u2019s aggression,\u201d PTI leader and member the National Assembly from Islamabad, Asad Umar, tweeted after the ruling.
 Justice (retired) Tariq Mehmood, former President of Supreme Court Bar Association, said the ICJ\u2019s decision is a provisional relief. \u201cI am not surprised by the ICJ decision as we need to understand that death penalty is not liked internationally, which is reflected in the decision. But the final decision will be made after arguments on the merits and maintainability and I must say our lawyer has made very valid arguments.\u201d , \nJudge Ronny Abraham, President of the ICJ, delivers the verdict in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case at the Peace Palace in The Hague on Thursday. \xa0 , The International Court of Justice on Thursday effectively stayed the execution of former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been sentenced to death in Pakistan on espionage charges.\xa0 , The Court said that India should have been granted consular access to its national Kulbhushan Jadhav as per the Vienna Convention.
 The ICJ asserted its jurisdiction over the case of Mr. Jadhav, who has been sentenced to death by Pakistan on charges of espionage and subversive activities.
 The circumstances of Mr. Jadhav\u2019s arrest remain disputed, ICJ president Ronny Abraham said while reading out his verdict.
  , \nICJ verdict staying Kulbhushan Jadhav execution\n, The 11-judge bench of the U.N.\u2019s highest court presented its verdict two days after India and Pakistan gave their submissions.
 The Court president Ronny Abraham said the Court unanimously ordered Pakistan to \u201ctake all measures at its disposal to ensure that Mr. Jadhav is not executed.\u201d,  , #ICJ PRESS RELEASE: Order in #India v. #Pakistan Case delivered today (provisional measures) https://t.co/fCj0yBhptd pic.twitter.com/SMVd41TrfM, The 150-day period for clemency given by Pakistan which ends in August suggests that the execution can happen immediately thereafter, Justice Abraham said. \u201cThe decision to stay Kulbhushan Jadhav\u2019s execution pending ICJ hearing is unanimous.\u201d, \nInternational Court of Justice President Judge Ronny Abraham (left) delivers the verdict in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case at the Peace Palace in The Hague on Thursday. \xa0 , The International Court of Justice (ICJ) on Thursday stayed the execution of former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was sentenced to death by a Pakistan military court on the charge of spying, till its final decision.
 \n, \nICJ verdict staying Kulbhushan Jadhav execution\n, 6.30 p.m.: Speaking on the steps of the court following the order, Pakistan's Ambassador to the UAE Moazzam Ahmad Khan says \u201cIt\u2019s a very basic thing the court has done \u2014 has given ruling on the provisional measures which is a procedural process and that is about it \u2014 the court has given said nothing on the merits or the maintainability of the case.\u201d, 6.18 p.m.: While the ICJ\u2019s order on Thursday was strictly confined to the issue of India\u2019s request for provisional measures \u2014 effectively staying the execution of Kulbhushan Jadhav until the court had had time to come to a decision on the matter \u2014 former Supreme Court Judge Dalveer Bhandari adds a further declaration to the order, concluding that \u201cthe basic human rights of Mr. Jadhav have been violated by not allowing India to have consular access to him after his arrest and during the pendency of the criminal proceedings against him in Pakistan.\u201d, 6.15 p.m.: \u201cHope concerned authorities of Pakistan have heard. Order created legally binding international obligations,\u201d says the MEA reacting to Pakistan Attorney-General\u2019s comments.
 6.00 p.m.: \u201cEvery Indian is relieved to hear the ICJ order today. Until the court is seized of the matter, Kulbhushan Jadhav will not be executed,\u201d says the MEA.
 5.45 p.m.: India has been \u201ctrying to hide its real face\u201d by taking the case to the ICJ and Pakistan will present solid evidence against Jadhav in the court, says Pakistan Foreign Office spokesperson.
 5.10 p.m.: The sitting attracted the local Indian community as well as tourists. Shekhar Jagtap of J. Shekhar &amp; Co. Advocate &amp; Associates in Mumbai, who attended the session while on holiday, said,\xa0 \u201cThere is a feeling of great excitement that India's position has been affirmed by the verdict \u2014 the arguments by India were prima facie accepted regarding provisional measures, jurisdiction, and urgency. Three important factors that Mr. Salve argued and Dr. Mittal had clarified. There has been a violation of Article 36 of the Vienna Convention.\xa0 Now Pakistan must realise there has to be a rule of law.\u201d, 5.00\xa0 p.m.: Prime Minister Narendra Modi expresses satisfaction at the ICJ order. He speaks to External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj to thank her and appreciates the efforts of advocate Harish Salve, who represented India in the case, PTI quotes official sources as saying.
 4.25 p.m.: Ms. Swaraj tweets minutes after the verdict, "I assure the nation that under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi we will leave no stone unturned to save Kulbhushan Jadhav". Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu also tweets, "International Court of Justice staying execution of Kulbhushan Jadhav has exposed Pakistan. I'm sure final order too will go in our favour.", 4.15 p.m.: Pakistan's agent does not make any comment on going on appeal against the verdict.
 4.10 p.m.: Mr. Jadhav's childhood friends in Mumbai celebrate the verdict.\xa0, \n\n, 4 p.m.: The ICJ unanimously agrees to provisional measures; reminds Pakistan that the verdict is binding on them.
 3.51 p.m.: The court finds uncertainty over when Mr. Jadhav\u2019s appeal will be heard, but Pakistan has indicated that it could be after August 1; The court finds in favour of India\u2019s contention that there is an urgency with provisional measures. President of the court Judge Ronny Abraham says till the final decision of the court the matter is sub judice.
 3.50 p.m.:\xa0 The court has the power to indicate provisional measures that give the rights to the subject of judicial proceedings and if only there is an imminent risk, says Judge Abraham. The fact that Mr. Jadhav might be executed is indicative of the imminent risk that was mentioned, he notes.
 3.45 p.m.: The Vienna Convention does not contain provision excluding persons suspected of terrorism or espionage, says Judge Abraham. (Effectively, the court has overruled Pakistan\u2019s objections to the jurisdiction of the ICJ in the issue).\xa0, 3.40 p.m.: The ICJ upholds India's plea for consular access. Pakistan's failure to follow the Convention falls under its jurisdiction, it says.
 3.38 p.m.: Judge Abraham says, "On the date the application was filed, a dispute existed between the parties as to consular Access with regard to the trial and sentencing of Mr. Jadhav. The acts alleged by India are culpable of falling under the Vienna Convention guaranteeing the right to communicate and have access to consular access rights.", 3.30 p.m.: Judge Abraham reads out the details of the case, specifying the arguments of both India and Pakistan.\xa0 "Pakistan had denied consular access to\xa0 India but it informed India that consular access will be considered after India's assistance in the investigation of the issue.\xa0 It appears that under Pakistani law Mr. Jadhav will have 40 days to file an appeal till\xa0 i.e.19 May. It is not known if he has done that so far," he says.
 \n\n, "The court must seek to determine whether Article 1 of Optional Protocol prima facie shows whether additional requirements are fulfilled. India and Pakistan are signatories to the Vienna Convention optional protocol since 1976-77.\xa0 The court will ascertain whether such a dispute appeared to exist between the parties. The parties appear to have differed and still differ on the question of consular access to Jadhav and the Convention.", \n, \nICJ verdict today on Kulbhushan Jadhav\n, \n\n, 3.00 p.m: Interest builds up ahead of the verdict with members of the Indian community in The Hague. Harbhajan Singh who has lived in The Hague for 40 years has come to hear about the case. This is his first visit to the ICJ. \u201cWe want to show our support for Mr. Jadhav," he says. With him is Yasphal Singh, who lives in Alkmaar near Amsterdam.
 The decision only pertains to India\u2019s request for the indication of provisional measures, and not on its wider application regarding Mr. Jadhav\u2019s fate. An order would be legally binding on Pakistan, unlike the letter that was sent to Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif last week, calling for the execution not to take place until the hearings happen. The court President's letter indicates that the ICJ may take on prima facie jurisdiction of India's request under Article 74 for provisional measures.
 Mr. Jadhav was sentenced to death in a Field General Court Martial on April 10, 2017 after three-and-a-half months of trial. He has been accused of espionage, working for India\u2019s R&amp;AW. He was allegedly arrested from Balochistan on March 3 last year.\xa0\xa0, While Pakistan said that it has a "confession video" of Mr. Jadhav saying he spied for India, India argued that Pakistan violated the provisions of the Vienna Convention on consular access. Pakistan has rejected consular access 16 times so far.\xa0, \n, \nICJ verdict today on Kulbhushan Jadhav\n, As a rare case, India approached the ICJ, seeking relief in the form of the immediate suspension of Jadhav's death sentence and a declaration that the sentenced handed to him was in defiance of rights defined by the Vienna Convention and in violation of basic human rights.
 It can be noted that this is the fourth case involving the death penalty heard by the ICJ. Also, This is the first death penalty case at the ICJ not involving the United States.
 (With inputs from agencies), \nPakistani journalists watch a video showing India\u2019s Kulbhushan Yadav, arrested on suspicion of spying, during a press conference in Islamabad March 29, 2016.\n\xa0 , The International Court of Justice is to deliver its order on India\u2019s request for the indication of provisional measures, that could put a temporary halt on the execution of Khulbhushan Jadhav.
 Jadhav has been accused by Pakistan of espionage and terrorism, but India says he was kidnapped, framed and sentenced following a \u201cfarcical\u201d trial.
 The decision on India\u2019s request will be delivered at 12 pm local time (3.30 pm India) in a public sitting at the Peace Palace in The Hague, the UN\u2019s principal judicial organ, also known as the \u201cWorld Court\u2019 said on Wednesday, just two days after public hearings on the matter. , \n\n, The decision will be read by the President of the ICJ, Ronny Abraham, who was one of the 11 ICJ judges who heard the arguments put forward by the Indian and Pakistani delegations during two intense one and a half hour sessions.
 During Monday\u2019s hearings, open to members of the public and broadcast live, India\u2019s Counsel Harish Salve accused Pakistan of \u201cegregious violations\u201d of the Vienna Convention on Consular Access, which he said allowed \u201cno exception\u201d and alleged that Pakistan had kidnapped Mr. Jadhav from Iran, and had framed and extracted a confession from him. , \n, \nKulbhushan Jadhav: the story so far\n, India based its case on the Vienna Convention rather than on a 2008 agreement on consular access between India and Pakistan, he said. However, Pakistan\u2019s Agent, the country\u2019s Ambassador to the UAE Moazzam Ahmad Khan ridiculed the suggestion that Mr. Jadhav\u2019s execution was imminent. \u201cWe have no reason to stop the canary from singing,\u201d he told the court. Pakistan\u2019s Counsel Qureshi dubbed Mr. Jadhav a \u201cterrorist\u201d and accused India of ambushing it with the push for provisional measures, while Mr. Jadhav had 150 days to appeal his sentence. While India sought to highlight previous ICJ cases to point to jurisdiction in the case, Pakistan countered by pointing to instances in which India had questioned its remit.
 While it is not the fastest decision to have been made by the ICJ (in the LeGrand case that also involved a potential execution and was between Germany and the United States the order was given within a day), Thursday\u2019s decision will be among the speedier ones. The decision only pertains to India\u2019s request for th indication of provisional measures, and not on its wider application regarding Mr. Jadhav\u2019s situation.
 \nDr. Deepak Mittal, joint secretary of India's Ministry of External Affairs, right, and his delegation wait for judges to enter the World Court in The Hague, Netherlands, Monday, May 15, 2017. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n , The International Court of Justice will decide whether to order Pakistan to temporarily halt the execution of former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav after what India termed a \u201cfarcical\u201d military trial in Pakistan, following a day of intense public hearings at the Peace Palace here.
 During the hearings, India\u2019s Counsel Harish Salve accused Pakistan of \u201cegregious violations\u201d of the Vienna Convention on Consular Access.
 \u201cThe situation we find ourselves in is grave and it is urgent and is the reason we have sought the indulgence of this court for a hearing on the indication of provisional measures,\u201d he told the court during a 90-minute session on Monday morning. \u201cThe Vienna Convention offers no exception.\u201d, In its presentation, Pakistan dubbed Mr. Jadhav a \u201cterrorist\u201d and accused India of ambushing it by pushing for provisional measures (stay on execution) from the court, denying the need for extreme urgency in the case. It asserted that Mr. Jadhav had 150 days to legally challenge his sentence, while stating that the Vienna Convention provisions were not intended for a \u2018spy\u2019 involved in terror activities.
  , \nKulbhushan Jadhav: the story so far\n, The decision of the court, in the form of an order, could come within days, with the shortest period ever taken by the court on an order being the day after the hearing. , Opening the arguments for India, Joint Secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Deepak Mittal was scathing about the \u201cmiscarriage of justice\u201d and the \u201cconcocted charges\u201d on which Mr. Jadhav was arrested and sentenced.
 Mr Mittal warned that without provisional measures requested by India, Pakistan would execute Mr. Jadhav before the court could consider the merits of India\u2019s claim, doing \u201cirreparable damage\u201d to the rights of India and Mr. Jadhav.
 Later in the afternoon, Pakistan\u2019s Ambassador to the UAE and Agent for Pakistan at the hearing Moazzam Ahmad Khan said, \u201cWe will not be cowed\u2026we will not allow any attempt to malign or misrepresent our processes to go unchecked.\u201d, Ahead of Pakistan\u2019s session in the afternoon, speculation centred on whether it would be able to air the video of Mr. Jadhav\u2019s alleged confession, already available online. The court, however, denied permission.
 Addressing the court, Mr Mittal said India had made repeated requests for assistance on consular access, which was denied and eventually told that access would only be given in light of India\u2019s cooperation in the Pakistani investigation.
 Mr. Salve accused Pakistan of \u201cegregious violations of the Vienna convention,\u201d right from Mr. Jadhav\u2019s arrest in March 2016. He described as \u201cfacetious\u201d a May 12 communication from Pakistan that outlined the legal avenues open to Mr. Jadhav, noting that it had failed to provide an assurance that the sentence would not be carried out. India relied solely on the Vienna Convention and not the agreement between India and Pakistan on consular access, he said.
 Pakistan\u2019s counsel Khawar Qureshi QC rejected the extreme urgency of the case, arguing that the demand for provisional measures amounted to a \u201cboot straps\u2019 argument. He added that questions over the \u201cpalpably false passport\u201d on which Mr. Jadhav was arrested, allegedly in Balochistan, required further explanation.
 He also pointed to past hearings where India had sought to challenge the jurisdiction of the court, and questioned the characterization of the 2008 agreement as not relevant. \u201cSerious allegations have been made against a member state of the United Nations and not one jot of evidence has been provided by India,\u201d he said and described India\u2019s allegations that Mr. Jadhav was kidnapped in Iran as \u201cfar fetched.\u201d, \nThe Indian delegation at the International Court of Justice in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case. \xa0 | Photo Credit: Vidya Ram  , The International Court of Justice in The Hague held public hearings on\xa0the case of Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former Indian Naval officer, who was arrested and sentenced to death by Pakistan in April over allegations of espionage and abetting terror.
 The one-day hearing involved two sessions of an hour-and-a-half, according India and Pakistan an opportunity to make their case, starting with India in the morning. Pakistan\u2019s session followed later in the afternoon. The court\u2019s judgment, which could follow as early as in a few days or take several months, is binding with no appeal.
 \n, Vidya Ram sends updates from The Hague:, 7.35 p.m.: Mr. Salve speaks to The Hindu outside the court. "Either he is an India spy or he is not an Indian national - I don't know how he is both.", 7.20 p.m.: Court will render its order as soon as possible. The date of the delivering of the order will be duly communicated, says Judge Ronny Abraham. With that, the sitting is closed.
 7.10 p.m.: Mr. Qureshi brings up the question of the "palpably false passport". " India says Jadhav is an Indian national. What has India done to prove that or establish that?," he asks. "It may not be surprising why that is the case.",  , \nVienna Convention not for \u2018spies\u2019 involved in terror: Pakistan to ICJ\n, Mr. Qureshi brings up the 2008 agreement, "which we've been told is not relevant. It is unfortunate that a technical argument is being brought before this court. Serious allegations have been made against a member state of the United Nations and not one jot of evidence has been provided by India.", He says kidnapping Mr. Jadhav from Iran for the sole purpose of getting a confession out of him seemed "far fetched". Says there is a long border between India and Pakistan, they could have taken anyone they wanted, so why would they take Jadhav from Iran?, It was said at this court that the Govt of Pakistan was denying consular access to Jadhav. Nothing can be further from the truth, says Mr. Qureshi.\xa0, 6.40 p.m.: Pakistan accuses India of ambushing it by bringing this case and rejects the need for urgency on this case. Q.C. Khawar Qureshi is presenting Pakistan's case.
 Mr. Qureshi - India should have only brought this application in extreme emergencies. It is clear after our arguments that there is no urgency with this. Govt of Pakistan is confident that law will prevail and India will find its claim has been dismissed. The question of access to Jadhav will be decided on the merits. The Indian authority were provided with the detailed copy of the FIR. Jadhav was arrested from Balochistan. He crossed in from Iran. His confession video was aired on 25 of March.\xa0 Provisional measures cannot and will not flow if the relief that India is seeking cannot be granted in this court. These provisional measures sought by India are "boot straps argument". India's only goal is the stay order.
 Pakistan brings up past cases where India had questioned jurisdiction of the court in 1974, and 1999/2000.
 6.35 p.m.: Pakistan responds to India's charges.
 6.30 p.m.: Pakistan will not broadcast the confession video as speculated earlier.
 6.15 pm:\xa0 The hearings are being held in front of 11 of the court\u2019s 15 judges, including President Ronny Abraham of France, and Indian Judge Dalveer Bhandari. The judges are elected to nine year terms by the Security Council and General Assembly and are required to put their national loyalties aside in the consideration of cases, being independent magistrates rather than representatives of their government.\xa0 As none of the judges include a Pakistani judge, Pakistan would theoretically have the right to appoint a person to sit as a judge ad hoc for the purpose of the case. However, this has not happened so far.
 5.10 pm: Speculations are rife that Pakistan might broadcast the video of the alleged confession at second half of the hearing at the ICJ.
 \n, \nFull text of Kulbhushan Jadhav's alleged confession , 4.30 pm: With the Pakistan session a few hours away, Pakistan channels are reporting that their delegation will accuse India of terrorism in its arguments later in the day.
 3.40 pm: Harish Salve says to the media outside the court, "We are here in the hope that Jadhav will not be executed. At present, we are looking for provisional measures.", 3.20 pm: The Delegation from Pakistan is:, Moazzam Ahmad Khan, Ambassador of Pakistan to UAE as Agent, Mohammad Faisal, DG (South Asia &amp; SAARC) as Agent, Syed Faraz Hussain Zaidi, Counsellor of the Pakistan Embassy in the Netherlands as Adviser, Q.C. Khawar Qureshi as Counsel, Asad Rahim Khan as Junior Counsel, Joseph Dyke as Legal Assistant, 3.10 pm: The ICJ judge closes the session. Pakistan will present its case later in the day.\xa0, 3.10 pm: Mr. Mittal presents his closing statements and thanks the ICJ.
 3.00 pm: Mr. Salve says -\xa0 In its letter of 21st March, Pakistan said to India that the request of consular access can be entertained if India assists in the investigation.\xa0 The more serious the charge the greater the need to ensure procedural safeguards to ensure that the accused gets a fair trial.\xa0 The confession played a significant part in the case. The allegations were made even as Jadhav's basic rights were denied.\xa0 India has a strong case that provisional measures be executed that Pakistan take all measures to ensure Jadhav is not executed; that the Pak. government ensure that no action be taken that might prejudice the rights of India or of Jadhav.
 2.55 pm: Mr. Salve says," The rights of Article 36 are sacrosanct. The rights of consular access are a significant step in the evolution of human rights in international law. Article 6 of the ICCPR recognises that no one can be arbitrarily deprived of their lives.\xa0 In determination of criminal charges, everyone can be entitled to a fair hearing. The person should be given Legal assistance of his own choosing and should be informed of\xa0 his rights in the interest of justice. In order to make this principle a reality, adherence to rules of Vienna Convention becomes vital. The graver the charge greater is the need for punctilious adherence to the Vienna Convetion.
 \n, Also read,  , Jadhav case: Hope justice in the form of provisional measures will be given, says Harish Salve , 2.45 pm: Mr Salve: On obtaining information on Jadhav's detainment India sought consular access on the same day. Following that, many\xa0 requests for access has been made by India.\xa0 Indian Nationality of Jadhav of has never been in doubt. Thus the Vienna Convention has been breached by Pakistan in the issue of consular access to Jadhav. There was a purported confession by him that was the basis of their case.\xa0 The Vienna Convention does not include any exceptions in respect to Consular access.\xa0 This underlines the farcical nature of the trial.\xa0 On 19th April India handed over a note to Pakistan seeking details of the charges and the summary of the trial proceedings.\xa0, 2.33 pm: Mr. Salve says,"India relies on the Vienna Convention. Mr. Salve refers to the case between Bulgaria and Belgium as precedent in the issue of jurisdiction.\xa0 The agreement between India and Pakistan on consular access is irrelevant.\xa0 India does not rely and does not need to rely on this agreement. It bases its case solely on the Vienna Convention.\xa0, 2.20 pm: Mr. Salve says," India asserts in the application that Pakistan denied consular access to Jadhav. The reasons for the said denial was also not given to India.\xa0 India has not been given a copy of the charges or the verdict and hence\xa0 has been unable to check the charges. The Vienna Convention offers no exception. India asserts that the breach of the Vienna Convention is fatal.\xa0 Under Article 36, jurisdiction exists in respect of all cases that parties refer to and in respect of all matters specially provided for in treaties and conventions.", 1.58 pm: Harish Salve as India's counsel starts presenting his statement -\xa0 I am grateful to the ICJ for taking up the case at such short notice.\xa0 India has moved ICJ under\xa0 Article 14 seeking suspension of the sentence awarded to Mr. Jadhav.\xa0 The case is grave and urgent. Mr. Salve refers to precedent of past cases including LaGrand case between Germany and US in 1982.\xa0 The case refers to the hearing before the ICJ which concerned the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.\xa0, Harish Salve says,"Jadhav's mother has filed for an appeal which was transmitted to Pakistan via diplomatic paths.\xa0 The communication of 12th May does not clarify on what his charges are or any clarity on the request for clemency.\xa0 Pakistan said that Jadhav's sentence is based on credible evidence in espionage against Pakistan. India refuses these allegations and says that Jadhav was kidnapped and framed.\xa0 India has taken measures to ensure appropriate legal measures for Jadhav.\xa0 It is not known whether Jadhav will seek clemency in the present circumstances.
 \n, \nKulbhushan Jadhav's sentence: Like the LaGrand brothers\n, 1.52 pm: V.D. Sharma, Joint Secretary, MEA as co-Agent presents statement:\xa0 Pakistan failed to comply to all its obligations under Article 36. It denied consular access to Mr. Jadhav ever since his arrest. India and Pakistan are both parties to the case and the issue has been brought to ICJ by ICJ. The bilateral agreement between India and Pakistan is irrelevant at this juncture, says Mr. Sharma.\xa0, 1.45 pm: India has been reiterating its request to Pakistan on consular access to Jadhav, says Mr. Mittal. India learnt from press reports that death sentence was awarded to Mr. Jadhav on the basis of a alleged confession. Pakistan has not provided the chargesheet, any documents on the case despite repeated requests. It is clear that Mr. Jadhav has been denied of his right to seek legal counsel.\xa0 Mr. Jadhav's parents have applied for visa to travel to Pakistan which has fallen on deaf ears: Mr. Mittal.
 1.40 pm: Deepak Mittal as India's Agent starts his opening statements seeking immediate suspension of the death sentence awarded to Kulbushan Jadhav.\xa0 Calling Pakistan's trial as 'farcical', Mr. Mittal introduces the Indian delegation at the Court.\xa0, India has been reiterating its request to Pakistan on consular access to Jadhav. India learnt from press reports that death sentence was awarded to Mr. Jadhav on the basis of a alleged confession. Pakistan has not provided the chargesheet, any documents on the case despite repeated requests, says Mr. Mittal.
 1.30 pm:\xa0 The judges read out the demands of both the countries. Each of the parties will have full 90 minute sitting - India may avail itself of short extension beyond 11.30 am (local time) this morning.\xa0, 1.20 pm: The Delegation from Pakistan includes:, Moazzam Ahmad Khan, Ambassador of Pakistan to UAE as Agent, Mohammad Faisal, DG (South Asia &amp; SAARC) as Agent, Syed Faraz Hussain Zaidi, Counsellor of the Pakistan Embassy in the Netherlands as Adviser, Q.C. Khawar Qureshi as Counsel, Asad Rahim Khan as Junior Counsel, Joseph Dyke as Legal Assistant, (An earlier version of this report said that Moazzam Ahmad Khan, is the Ambassador of Pakistan to The Netherlands. Mr. Khan is actually Pak. Ambassador to UAE.), 1:15 pm: Here are India's demands in the case:, \n\n, 1:00 pm: Joint Secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) MEA, Deepak Mittal, is India's principal agent, who opens and closes the arguments. Others in the delegation will contribute.
 Deepak Mittal as Agent, V.D. Sharma,Joint Secretary, MEA as co-Agent, Harish Salve as Counsel, Kajal Bhat, First Secretary, Embassy of India in the Netherlands as Adviser, Chetna N. Rai as Junior Counsel, 12:45 am: Pakistan's delegation has arrived at the venue. Today's proceedings is expected to begin by 1:30 pm\xa0 and will be heard by 11 judges.
 12:40 pm: Pakistan will be presenting its case using past precedent where India has refused the ICJ jurisdiction, including in the 1999 Atlantique case of a plane that was shot down by India.
 12:30 pm: Ahead of the hearing, legal teams from India and Pakistan arrived at The Hague. The Indian team, led by former solicitor general Harish Salve who won the stay at the ICJ last week, is expected to focus on the violations of the Vienna convention by Pakistan on the issue of consular access, and on the lack of transparency in the Pakistani military court, which India has said, in its 12-page appeal, qualifies for the trial to be pronounced \u201cillegal\u201d.
 12:20 pm: The case of Mr. Jadhav \u2014 whom Pakistan accuses of being a spy for India\u2019s Intelligence Agency Research and Analysis Wing, but who India says is innocent and has been kidnapped by Pakistani agents from Iran \u2014 has become a proxy for tensions between the two countries. n, (With inputs from Kallol Bhattacherjee) , \nDelegations of India, left, and Pakistan, right, wait for judges to enter the World Court in The Hague, Netherlands, on Monday\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n , Following the presentation of India\u2019s arguments to a panel of 11 judges at the International Court of Justice at The Hague on the case of former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, attention will soon turn to Pakistan\u2019s case which will be made before the court at 3pm local time (6.30 pm Indian time), and which will last for 90 minutes.
 \xa0, The public hearings are being held on India\u2019s request for provisional measures, which were made on an urgent basis until the court decides on the substance of the case. The notice for the hearing was one of the shortest in the history of the court. The Indian delegation was led by Dr. Deepak Mittal, Jt Secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran), MEA, with Dr. V.D. Sharma, Joint Secretary of the Ministry of External Affairs as co-agent, and Mr. Harish Salve as Counsel.
 \xa0, Opening the arguments for India - during a 90 minute session on Monday morning - Mr. Mittal was scathing about the \u201cmiscarriage of justice\u201d and the \u201cconcocted charges\u201d on which Mr. Jadhav had been arrested and sentenced, and described his trial\xa0 in Pakistan as \u201cfarcical.\u201d He warned that without provisional measures requested by India, Pakistan would executive Mr. Jadhav before the court could consider the merits of India\u2019s claim, doing \u201cirreparable damage\u201d to the rights of India and Mr. Salve.
 \xa0, India had made repeated requests for assistance on consular access, which had been denied and had been eventually told that access would only be given in light of India\u2019s cooperation in the Pakistani investigation. Jadhav\u2019s mother had submitted an appeal but without access to the details of the case and the charge sheet, this was an \u201cact of desperation by a grieving parent.\u201d The family\u2019s application for a visa to travel to Pakistan had to date received no response. , \xa0, However, it fell to Harish Salve, India\u2019s Counsel, to deliver the details of India\u2019s case. \u201cThe situation we find ourselves in is grave and it is urgent and is the reason we have sought the indulgence of this court for a hearing on the indication of provisional measures,\u201d he said as he pointed to a string of past cases heard by the court to establish its jurisdiction in this area, and past precedents on the issue of provisional measures.
 \xa0, He accused Pakistan of \u201cegregious violations of the Vienna convention,\u201d right from the time of Mr. Jadhav\u2019s arrest in March 2016.\xa0 He described as \u201cfacetious\u201d a May 12 communication from Pakistan that had outlined the legal avenues open to Mr. Jadhav, noting that it had failed to provide an assurance that the sentence would not be carried out, \xa0, Speaking following the hearing Mr. Salve expressed his hope that \u201cjustice\u201d in the form of provisional measures would be delivered following the hearings, and that India was \u201chere in the hope\u201d that it would lead to annulment of the death sentence.
 \nPowai residents form a human chain in solidarity with Kulbhushan Jadhav. \xa0 | Photo Credit: Prashant Nakwe , The Peace Palace, home of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, will on Monday hold public hearings on the case of Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former Indian Naval officer, who was arrested and sentenced to death by Pakistan in April over allegations of espionage and abetting terror.
 The one-day hearing will involve two sessions of an hour and a half, according India and Pakistan an opportunity to make their case, starting with India in the morning. Pakistan\u2019s session will follow in the afternoon. The court\u2019s judgment, which could follow as early as in a few days or take several months, is binding with no appeal.
 On Friday, ICJ President Ronny Abraham directed Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to \u201cact in such a way as to enable the court to enforce any decision it takes on the India plea,\u201d effectively staying Jadhav\u2019s execution until the court was able to hear and deliberate on the matter.
 \n, \nSaving Kulbhushan Jadhav\n, Ahead of the hearing, legal teams from India and Pakistan arrived at The Hague. The Indian team, led by former solicitor general Harish Salve who won the stay at the ICJ last week, is expected to focus on the violations of the Vienna convention by Pakistan on the issue of consular access, and on the lack of transparency in the Pakistani military court, which India has said, in its 12-page appeal, qualifies for the trial to be pronounced \u201cillegal\u201d.
 The Pakistani team will be led by Attorney-General Ashtar Ausaf, assisted by senior lawyer Asad Rahim. Foreign Secretary Tehmina Janjua, who has prior experience at the UN, is also expected to fly to The Hague, where Pakistan will be presenting its case using past precedent where India has refused the ICJ jurisdiction, including in the 1999 Atlantique case of a plane that was shot down by India.
 Mr. Jadhav was denied 16 requests for consular access over the course of a year, while his family has not been issued visas to travel to Pakistan either, to help in any appeal process, says India.
 \n, \nWhat is the ICJ's role in the Kulbushan Jadhav trial?\n, India has sought relief in the form of immediate suspension of the death sentence, and a declaration that the sentenced handed to Mr. Jadhav was in defiance of Vienna Convention rights and in defiance of elementary human rights. It also calls for the court to restrain Pakistan from \u201cgiving effect to the sentence awarded by the military court\u201d and to direct it to annul the decision of the military court.
 \u201cIf Pakistan is unable to annul the decision, then this Court [is] to declare the decision illegal being violative of international law and treaty rights and restrain Pakistan from acting in violation of the Vienna Convention and international law by giving effect to the sentence or the conviction in any manner, and directing it to release the convicted Indian National forthwith.\u201d, The case of Mr. Jadhav \u2014 whom Pakistan accuses of being a spy for India\u2019s Intelligence Agency Research and Analysis Wing, but who India says is innocent and has been kidnapped by Pakistani agents from Iran \u2014 has become a proxy for tensions between the two countries.
 India has acknowledged that it is rare for it to turn to the international court, a break from its stated position that it will not internationalise disputes with Pakistan.
 Pakistan\u2019s Attorney General\u2019s Office in the Supreme Court building in Islamabad is witnessing unusual late sittings these days. India\u2019s application in the International Court of Justice against the hanging of Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been convicted of espionage in Pakistan, and the ICJ intervention have caught many by surprise in Islamabad.
 After a military court in Rawalpindi sentenced Jadhav to death on April 10, Pakistani authorities had turned a blind eye to India\u2019s responses. India was denied consular access to Jadhav. No lawyer in Pakistan was willing to take up his appeal. Just when the Pakistani government thought the Jadhav case is almost closed, India moved the ICJ at The Hague.
 The prime Minster\u2019s Senior Adviser on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz told reporters that Pakistan is examining the Indian move and the Foreign Office will soon respond in detail. The response is yet to come.
 On the other hand, Attorney General Ishtar Ausaf\u2019s office is combing through bilateral treaties and agreements. Pakistan\u2019s first line of defence to counter India\u2019s plea was an agreement reached in 2008 on consular access. Clause VI of the agreement says a \u2018decision to grant consular access in cases where detentions and arrests relate to political or security matters\u201d will be taken \u201con the merits of the case\u201d.
 The Atlantique incident of 1999, when a Pakistan Navy plane was shot down by India in the disputed Rann of Kutch area, is of special interest to Pakistan. After the incident, Pakistan invoked ICJ jurisdiction against India. But India got a reprieve in a 14-2 majority verdict as ICJ held that the international court has no jurisdiction in the presence of bilateral agreements. Pakistani lawyers believe the precedence of Atlantique case can be the first obstacle for India in the Jadhav case.
 Besides, Pakistani officials say the military court verdict on Jadhav is not final. \u201cThere are at least three forums of appeals left. One is the review in FGCM (Field General Court Martial), the second is the Supreme Court and the final is the mercy petition. Pakistan will argue before the ICJ that since appeals are available in Pakistan therefore the ICJ cannot take up the case,\u201d a lawyer associated with finalising Pakistan\u2019s response said.
 Ali Nawaz Chohan, who served as a judge at ICJ during 2006-09, shares the same view. \u201cPakistan\u2019s best defence is that India should exhaust all forums of appeals in Pakistan before contacting the ICJ,\u201d he said. , But he feared that the ICJ being very sensitive to human rights cases can overlook its jurisdiction. \u201cIt can apply the Vienna Convention of the law of treaties of 1969 (VCOLT) to which Pakistan is a signatory to override all local laws of the country if it is convinced that any violation of human rights has taken place,\u201d he pointed out.
 He stressed that a consular access by Pakistan at any level to Jadhav would have closed this small window of opportunity for India. , Prominent commentators have expressed doubts over the ability of the International Court of Justice to enforce its order in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case. The case, which will come up for hearing on May 15, is likely to face a difficult hurdle as Pakistan had on March 29 revised its commitment to the ICJ and has withdrawn all domestic and national security related issues from the jurisdiction of the court.
  , \nRecourse to ICJ \u2018carefully considered\u2019\n, \u201cPakistan is a rogue state and India\u2019s concerns are far greater than just the case over Kulbhushan Jadhav. The real issue is that the ICJ may not have the abilities to enforce its final order,\u201d said strategic affairs commentator Brahma Chellany. He went on to say that Pakistan is likely to challenge the ICJ\u2019s jurisdiction over the Jadhav case in view of its March 29 declaration.
 In a declaration to the ICJ, days before the announcement of death sentence to Kulbhushan Jadhav, Pakistan had informed the court that issues related to its domestic sphere and national security issues would no longer be part of the ICJ jurisdiction.
  , \nHope and joy over reprieve for Kulbhushan Jadhav\n, \u201cDisputes relating to or connected with any aspect of hostilities, armed conflicts, individual or collective self-defence or the discharge of any functions pursuant to any decision or recommendation of international bodies, the deployment of armed forces abroad, as well as action relating and ancillary thereto in which Pakistan is, has been or may in future be involved,\u201d stated the declaration made by its envoy to the United Nations, Maleeha Lodhi.
 The declaration from Pakistan was made even as a military court sentenced Mr Jadhav to death on charges of sabotage and violence against the state of Pakistan. The Ministry of External Affairs said on Wednesday that India moved the ICJ to save the life of Mr Jadhav. However, commentators said that India might win the arguments and yet find it difficult to pin down Pakistan in this case.
 \nKulbushan Jadhav\u2019s residence in Powai.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: \nVijay Bate\n , The stay on the execution of former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav by the International Court of Justice was welcomed with both hope and jubilation by his family and friends in Mumbai. , Kulbhushan, who used to stay with his family in Powai, was arrested by the Pakistan military in March last year on espionage charge. The Government of India has since then been trying to free him. However, in April this year, he was sentenced to death. , Speaking to The Hindu, Jadhav's uncle, retired Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Subhash Jadhav said, \u201cWe just want our child back. There is really nothing to say beyond that. The decision comes as a ray of hope and we are all, as a family, standing united with Kulbhushan.\u201d, Father, mother in Delhi, Kulbhushan's father, Sudhir Jadhav, who also retired as an ACP with the Mumbai Police, is reportedly in Delhi with his wife, following up with the Central government on the next steps in the process of securing his son's release. , Kulbhushan's friends, who stay in Lower Parel, as well as residents of Powai, welcomed the news of the stay on his execution with elation and expressed their happiness over the fact that there had been at least one positive step.
 \u201cWe learned about the news late on Tuesday night and could hardly believe it. The first thing we did this morning was to get together and distribute sweets in the area. Finally, there is some indication that we will see our friend again,\u201d said Kulbhushan\u2019s childhood friend Tulsidas Pawar, who had started a signature campaign demanding that Kulbhushan be brought home as soon as possible. The two men grew up in the same area till the Jadhavs shifted to Powai. , \u2018A beginning made\u2019, \u201cI had recently heard from Kulbhushan\u2019s family. They had sent us a message through some mutual friends saying that they found our effort to be a source of support, and urged us to keep up the good work. I had promised them that I would not give up. I am sure that now that a beginning has been made, the truth will prevail,\u201d Mr. Pawar said. , Residents of the Hiranandani area too came together outside the Silver Oak building where the Jadhavs stay and distributed sweets. The residents had come together to form a human chain outside the buidling in a peaceful protest demanding Kulbhushan's release. , \u201cSince the time he was arrested, he has been out of reach. The Indian government wanted consular access but he was deprived of it. Finally, the Ministry of External Affairs took the matter to the International court and now a fair trial will begin,\u201d said ex-Indian Air Force officer Sudhir Shetty, who lives in the area. , \nPakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. File photo\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: PTI ,  Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa on Wednesday discussed the International Court of Justice\u2019s stay order on the execution of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav, media reports said.
 During the meeting, which lasted for around 90 minutes, Mr. Sharif was briefed on the \u201clatest situation\u201d regarding Jadhav\u2019s case, the Geo News reported.
 The International Court of Justice (ICJ) on Tuesday stayed the execution of 46-year-old Jadhav, who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of \u201cspying\u201d.
 The order by the Hague-based ICJ came a day after India approached it against the death sentence handed down to Mr. Jadhav by Pakistan\u2019s Field General Court Martial last month.
  , \nIndia approached ICJ as Jadhav is in illegal detention, says MEA , India, in its appeal to the ICJ, accused Pakistan of \u201cegregious\u201d violations of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and asserted that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he was involved in business activities after retiring from the Indian Navy but Pakistan claimed to have arrested him from Balochistan on March 3, 2016.
 In the meeting, Mr. Sharif and Mr. Bajwa also discussed other issues including the Dawn leaks controversy and Pak-Afghan relations, the channel said.
 The meeting between the Army chief and the premier is the second one within a week and is significant in light of the civil-military row over Dawn\u2019s leaked report that had angered the powerful army.
 On May 6, Prime Minister Sharif had met the Army chief and both discussed the Dawn Leaks issue, among other things.
 Mr. Sharif and the Army chief had agreed that the issues surrounding Dawn leaks would be dealt with amicably.
 In October, a columnist for Dawn wrote a front-page story about a rift between civilian and military leaderships over militant groups that operate from Pakistan but engage in proxy war against India and Afghanistan.
 The Army took strong exception to the Dawn story. The military had called the leak of the meeting a breach of national security and urged strong, punitive action against those responsible for leaking information to the newspaper.
 \nFile photo of former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of 'espionage'. \xa0 | Photo Credit: PTI , India decided to move the International Court of Justice (ICJ) on the issue of former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav as he is in illegal detention and his life is under threat in Pakistan, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Wednesday.
 On India's plea, the ICJ at the Hague on Tuesday stayed the execution of Jadhav. He was sentenced to death by a Pakistan military court on the charge of \u201cspying,\u201d, MEA spokesperson Gopal Baglay said the decision was taken after careful deliberation. He pointed out that India made 16 requests for consular access to Jadhav but there was no response from Pakistan on the demand. , \u201cIslamabad has also not responded to India\u2019s request for papers relating to his case,\u201d he noted.
 \n, \nInternational Court of Justice stays Kulbhushan Jadhav's execution\n, There was also no information on the status of appeal by Jadhav\u2019s family against the execution order, he said.
 Minister for External Affairs Sushma Swaraj had written to Pakistan Foreign Affairs Adviser Sartaj Aziz on April 27 requesting visa for Jadhav\u2019s family.
 The ICJ order came a day after India approached the world court against the death sentence.
 \nA differently-abled person participates in a signature campaign against the death sentence to former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav by Pakistani military court, in Nagpur.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: S. Sudarshan , In a major breakthrough in the Government of India\u2019s efforts to save former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav from the death sentence awarded to him by a Pakistan military court on charges of terrorism and spying for India's intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) at The Hague has stayed his execution. In a petition to the ICJ, India had accused Pakistan of gross violation of international laws.
 Ordering the stay, ICJ President Justice Ronny Abraham directed Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to \u201cact in such a way so as to enable the court to enforce any decision it takes on the Indian plea.\u201d This effectively stays Jadhav\u2019s execution until the court hears the matter and passes orders.
 \n, \nA mom\u2019s plea to to save her son reaches Pak. doorsteps\n, In the petition filed on May 8, a team of lawyers, led by senior advocate Harish Salve, listed out the details of the Jadhav case and the \u201cegregious violations\u201d of the Vienna convention that deals with Consular relations, including Pakistan\u2019s refusal to give any details of Jadhav\u2019s arrest and trial until after the death sentence was passed, failure to provide consular access to India despite 15 attempts, and suggesting access would be given only in exchange for information about Jadhav from India.
 External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj said she had informed Jadhav\u2019s mother of the order.
 India has rarely approached the ICJ in the past, given its hesitation to \u201cinternationalise\u201d its bilateral relations, especially when it comes to Pakistan. However a senior official told The Hindu that the Jadhav case required the extreme measure, as \u201cPakistan had refused to follow any established norm or principle.\u201d, In the petition explaining the urgency, India said that \u201cwithout the provisional measures requested, Pakistan will execute Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav before the Court can consider the merits of India\u2019s claims and India will forever be deprived of the opportunity to vindicate its rights\u201d, indicating that a final appeal filed by Jadhav\u2019s mother in the Pakistan Supreme Court could be adjudicated at any time, unless the international court acted.
 The ICJ is a part of the United Nations, and its judgments have binding force and are without appeal for the parties concerned, a press release issued at The Hague on Tuesday said.
 An earlier version of this article erroneously stated that the Geneva convention deals with Consular relations. It is the Vienna convention that defines consular relations. The error has been corrected.
 \nA differently-abled person participates in a signature campaign against the death sentence to former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav by Pakistani military court, in Nagpur.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: S. Sudarshan ,  India has sought from Pakistan a certificate on the health condition of Kulbhushan Jadhav, sentenced to death by a military court there, the External Affairs Ministry said on Thursday.
 MEA spokesperson Gopal Baglay said that the well being and state of Mr. Jadhav\u2019s health is a \u201cmatter of great concern\u201d to India as the former Indian Navy officer has been in Pakistan\u2019s custody for more than a year on charges of espionage.
 \u201cWe haven\u2019t seen, we haven\u2019t met (Jadhav). He has been in Pakistan\u2019s custody for more than a year. So the well being and state of health of Jadhav is a matter of great concern.
 \u201cWe have asked Pakistani government earlier also, and yesterday our High Commissioner (to Pakistan Gautam Bambawale) made a request on providing a report on his medical condition. So we await Pakistan\u2019s response,\u201d Mr. Baglay said.
 India on Wednesday handed over to Pakistan, a letter of appeal from the mother of former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been sentenced to death by a military court on espionage charges.
 Apart from the letter, India\u2019s High Commissioner to Pakistan Gautam Bambawale also conveyed to Pakistan Foreign Secretary Tehmina Janjua, the request for consular access for Mr. Jadhav, for the 16th time.
 \u201cAlso handed over was the appeal by the mother to the Court of Appeal, on behalf of Shri. Jadhav, who continues to be in detention in Pakistan on concocted charges. The mother of Shri. Jadhav has requested the intervention of the Federal Government of Pakistan for his release and has expressed the desire to meet him,\u201d said a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs.
 The process of appeal was laid out by Sartaj Aziz, Adviser on Foreign Affairs to the Prime Minister of Pakistan, on April 14. Mr. Aziz said that Mr. Jadhav could appeal against the death sentence to an Appellate Court, within 40 days. The MEA indicated that Mr. Jadhav\u2019s family members were likely to travel to Pakistan to fight the case.
 \u201cPakistan was\u2026 requested to facilitate visas for the mother and father of Shri. Jadhav. They wish to travel to Pakistan to meet him and also to personally file the petition and the appeal,\u201d the Ministry of External Affairs stated in a press release. The statement revealed that the parents had applied for visas to the High Commission of Pakistan in Delhi.
 Mr. Jadhav\u2019s case was also discussed by Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar and Pakistan High Commissioner Abdul Basit in a meeting held on Tuesday, the MEA said. Mr. Jadhav will have the option of lodging a mercy petition with the Chief of Army Staff (CoAS) of Pakistan within 60 days of the decision by the appellate court.
 Mr. Jadhav is also entitled to apply for mercy from the President of Pakistan within 90 days after the decision of CoAS on the mercy petition. However, the entire process of appealing in the case has come under a cloud following non-availability of Pakistani lawyers willing to fight on his behalf.
 \nReason for cheer: Dabbawalas distribute sweets at Lower Parel in Mumbai on Wednesday to celebrate the stay on the execution of Kulbhushan Jadhav.\n\xa0 , A day after India got a stay on Pakistan\u2019s death sentence to arrested former Navy official Kulbhushan Jadhav at an international tribunal, the government defended going to the tribunal, as a \u201ccarefully considered decision.\u201d The Ministry of External Affairs said the decision to resort to arbitration at the International Court of Justice, after a gap of 46 years, was appropriate as the ultimate aim is to save Mr. Jadhav\u2019s life.
 \u201cDespite requesting the government of Pakistan, we did not get the documents on the case. We do not know the status of the petition and the appeal filed by the mother of Mr. Jadhav. The visas sought for by his family have not been granted. In this situation to save the life of an Indian who was kidnapped and who was not given a fair trial, we have approached the International Court of Justice,\u201d said spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Gopal Baglay. He added, \u201cthe case is a consular matter.\u201d, India had repeatedly sought consular access to Mr. Jadhav and had been repeatedly denied it. The spokesperson said the ICJ had informed New Delhi about the steps it has initiated in response to India\u2019s request.
 \n, \nNawaz Sharif discusses Jadhav issue with Pak Army chief\n, The ICJ on Tuesday stated in a press release that India seeks suspension of the death sentence that has been given to Mr. Jadhav by a Pakistani military tribunal. India is expected to take up the case on May 15 when senior advocate Harish Salve will represent it.
 Pakistan did not comment on the stay order, with Foreign Affairs Adviser Sartaj Aziz saying that Islamabad was currently studying the issue of jurisdiction of the ICJ. In a tweet, Pakistan\u2019s Defence Minister Khawaja M. Asif alleged that the Indian move was part of a diversionary tactic. \u201cIndian letter to ICJ attempts to divert attention from state-sponsored terrorism in Pakistan. Kulbhushan convicted of offences against (Pakistani) national security,\u201d Mr. Asif said.
 Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa on Wedensday discussed the ICJ\u2019s order, media reports from Islamabad said. During the meeting, which lasted around 90 minutes, Mr. Sharif was briefed on the \u201clatest situation\u201d regarding Jadhav\u2019s case.
 \n, \nWhat is the ICJ's role in the Kulbushan Jadhav trial?\n, India has in the past refused to accept the jurisdiction of the ICJ on issues such as the Atlantique aircraft incident of 1999 and in the Saurav Kalia case. However, the MEA spokesperson sought to differentiate between the consular and human rights issues. \u201cJurisdiction is not for me to decide. As of now, we have been informed of the action that the court has initiated in this matter. This is a carefully considered decision to save the life of a son of India,\u201d the spokesperson said.
 However, in a sign that the current standoff over Mr. Jadhav is leading to greater strain in bilateral ties, the MEA admitted that it has imposed new restrictions on medical visas to Pakistani citizens.
 \u201cWe have suggested that if the Foreign Affairs Adviser of Pakistan issues recommendation letters for patients, we will immediately issue the visa.\u201d, (With PTI inputs), \nFile photo of former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of 'espionage'. \xa0 | Photo Credit: PTI ,  India, on Thursday, demanded consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court for alleged spying. This was conveyed by Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad Gautam Bambawale to Pakistan Foreign Secretary Tehmina Janjua during a meeting sought by him.
 On April 19, a meeting between Bambawale and Janjua was rescheduled.
 Pakistan has denied India\u2019s request for consular access to 46-year-old Jadhav over a dozen times in the last one year. Pakistan Army has already rejected any chance of granting consular access to Jadhav who was sentenced to death for espionage and subversive activities.
 On April 14, Bambawale had met with the Pakistani foreign secretary, showing increasing concern of India about the fate of Jadhav. He told media after his meeting that he had asked for list of charges and authentic copy of verdict of military tribunal against Jadhav to launch appeal against his conviction. He also said that India was seeking consular access on the basis of international law humanitarian grounds.
 Pakistan Foreign Office has said that during the period of trial of Jadhav, due judicial process was followed and he was provided a lawyer in accordance with relevant laws and the Constitution of Pakistan. Jadhav was awarded death sentence by the Field General Court Martial earlier this month, evoking a sharp reaction in India which warned Pakistan of consequences and damage to bilateral ties if the \u201cpre-meditated murder\u201d was carried out.
 Pakistan claims its security forces had arrested Jadhav from the restive Balochistan province on March 3 last year after he reportedly entered from Iran. It also claimed that he was \u201ca serving officer in the Indian Navy.\u201d The Pakistan Army had also released a \u201cconfessional video\u201d of Jadhav after his arrest.
 However, India denied Pakistan\u2019s contention and maintained that Jadhav was kidnapped by the Pakistan authorities. India had acknowledged that Jadhav had served with the navy but denied that he has any connection with the government.
 Pakistan on Monday rejected India\u2019s assertion that it was violating a bilateral pact by not giving access to retired Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been sentenced to death by a military court there.
 India has made 15 requests for consular access to 46-year-old Mr. Jadhav, who has been convicted of \u201cespionage and sabotage\u201d by a Pakistan army court.
 On the repeated consular requests by India, which has also accused Pakistan of violating the bilateral pact on the issue, Pakistan High Commissioner Abdul Basit said, \u201cWe have a bilateral agreement under which it is clearly said that in matters relating to political and security issues, those cases should be decided on merit.
 \u201cSo, we have so far taken a decision strictly in accordance with the law of the land and as per the bilateral agreement of 2008 (with India). We have not breached anything,\u201d he said.
 Denies charges, Categorically dismissing the charge that Mr. Jadhav was a spy, India has maintained that he was kidnapped by Pakistani authorities from Iran where he had legitimate business interest. , Rejecting India\u2019s stand that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran, Mr. Basit said he was caught in Balochistan and tried for \u201cespionage and sabotage\u201d.
 \nformer Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of 'espionage'. \xa0 , India has made a fifteenth request to Pakistan for consular access to the former Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav.
 A spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) confirmed that the request for consular access and the process of appeal regarding the case was made on Wednesday, even as he maintained that Pakistan has not informed India about Mr. Jadhav\u2019s physical well being and location.
 \u201cWe would like to know officially, what are the options in terms of the process of appeals and how that can be exercised [in Pakistan],\u201d said spokesperson Gopal Baglay, revealing the demands that India had communicated to Islamabad during the meeting with the Deputy High Commissioner of Pakistan in Delhi. However, he maintained that Mr. Jadhav\u2019s health and well being were a cause of worry for India.
 \u201cWe have no information about where is Kulbhushanji in Pakistan. His health and condition are matters of deep worry for us. Including yesterday, we have sought consular access for fifteen times,\u201d said Mr. Baglay, explaining that the consular meeting is necessary to find out about Mr. Jadhav\u2019s health as it is a normal practice in cases of all bilateral prisoners. Consular access, he said, was necessary also to find out Mr. Jadhav\u2019s opinion as he has been accused of special allegations, that are baseless.
 \u201cAs Pakistan has been claiming of legal proceedings against Mr. Jadhav and we would also like to see what are the details of the proceedings from the Government of Pakistan,\u201d Mr. Baglay said.
 This presentation happened a day after Pakistan postponed a meeting between Indian High Commissioner Gautam Bambawale and Foreign Secretary of Pakistan Tehmina Janjua. The meeting was postponed at the last moment after Indian officials held a meeting in Delhi with the Deputy High Commissioner of Pakistan in Delhi. Sources, however, maintained that the government is currently exploring several options about freeing Mr. Jadhav.
 The MEA downplayed Pakistani allegations that its nationals in Indian custody have been denied of consular access. The spokesperson pointed out that there are many Pakistani prisoners in Indian custody who have committed serious crimes against the Indian state but it is not yet known if Pakistan has availed the option of consular access to them.
 \nformer Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of 'espionage'. \xa0 , The Pakistan army on Monday ruled out consular access to former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, days after India made a strong case for access to him, who is now on death row.
 Jadhav, 46, was awarded death sentence by the Field General Court Martial last week, evoking a sharp reaction in India, which warned Pakistan of consequences and damage to bilateral ties if the \u201cpre-meditated murder\u201d was carried out.
 \u201cUnder the law we cannot give consular access to Khulbhushan who was involved in spying,\u201d Pakistan military spokesman Major General Asif Ghafoor said.
 However, Indian officials in New Delhi maintained that there was no communication from Pakistan on denial of consular access.
 \n\u201cThe current cycle of bilateral engagement and acrimony runs from the dramatic visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Lahore on Christmas in 2015.\u201d The two leaders on that visit. PTI\n\xa0 , The military trial and summary sentencing to death of Kulbhushan Jadhav in Pakistan, with the Indian High Commission denied consular access to him, has plunged India-Pakistan relations into a crisis again. Mr. Jadhav is not the first Indian to be caught and sentenced as a spy by Pakistan, but the first retired middle-level naval officer. The context and background of this need examination.
 The current cycle of bilateral engagement and acrimony runs from the dramatic visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Lahore on Christmas in 2015. The occasion was Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif\u2019s granddaughter\u2019s wedding, but really it was a diplomatic leap in the dark. As in the past, beginning with Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee\u2019s Lahore bus journey, theatrical moves rattle anti-India forces in the Pakistani military and jihadi organisations, who then unleash retributive terrorist acts. Within a week of Mr. Modi and Mr. Sharif socialising, the Pathankot airbase was attacked. Tragically, within days of that, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, who headed the Peoples Democratic Party\u2019s alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party, died. The stage was set for instability in the Kashmir Valley.
 While Mufti sahib\u2019s daughter Mehbooba Mufti dithered for nearly three months whether or not to succeed her father, the situation in Pakistan was drifting too. Prime Minister Sharif, marginalised by his namesake, the Pakistani Army chief, undermined by the Panama Papers revelations and suffering from heart trouble, left for the U.K. for medical treatment in April 2016. He returned to Pakistan in July. By then, Ms. Mufti had barely been in office when Burhan Wani, a self-styled commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen, was killed, inflaming an already restive Valley. From that point onwards, Indo-Pak relations slid downwards.
 Kulbhushan Jadhav alias Hussein Mubarak Patel was arrested by Pakistan in March 2016, allegedly in Balochistan, for espionage and abetting terror. This was a windfall for Pakistan as since the 2008 Mumbai attacks and the confessions of Pakistan-born American operative David Headley, it had been seeking moral equivalence by alleging complicity of India\u2019s external intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing (R&amp;AW), in almost every major attack, particularly by the renegade Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan. In fact, the joint statement of Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and Yousaf Raza Gilani at Sharm el-Sheikh in 2009 was widely condemned in India for unnecessarily allowing Pakistan to introduce Balochistan in the statement to discuss an alleged Indian hand in the Baloch uprising.
 There is the usual Indo-Pak disagreement over facts. India claims Mr. Jadhav was conducting business out of Chabahar, Iran, for many years after retiring from the Navy, and that he has been abducted by Pakistani state or non-state actors from within Iran. The fact that despite specific provisions in the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, India was denied access to Mr. Jadhav only confirms that Pakistan does not want the truth to be revealed about the place and manner of arrest. India also argues that spies and operatives are not sent carrying their own passports. On the other hand, it is unclear why Mr. Jadhav was operating under a Muslim name, and if he did convert, why the government keeps referring to him by his earlier name. India has not challenged the authenticity of his passport, implying that it was not obtained by fraud or faked by Pakistan. With the debate in India now enveloped in jingoism, such lacunae in stories paraded by both sides are beyond examination.
 The truth may never be known, but \u201cDoval-isation\u201d of India\u2019s approach to Pakistan has been obvious for some time. Prime Minister Modi\u2019s espousal of the cause of Balochis and the residents of Gilgit from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, 2016 only confirmed Pakistani fears that India abets terror and secession in Pakistan. However, recent signals from Pakistan via Track II events were that the new Army chief, Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa, wanted to reorient his Army\u2019s approach towards India and would endorse the civilian government\u2019s lead in crafting its India policy. He was apparently getting a pushback from entrenched interests raised on India baiting. There were unconfirmed reports that National Security Adviser Ajit Doval had spoken to his Pakistani counterpart to acknowledge the signal and create an environment for resuming political contact. Why then did Pakistan change tack and with sudden alacrity, devoid of transparency, sentence Mr. Jadhav?, One trigger could have been the disappearance of an ex-ISI Pakistani military officer in Nepal. Another may be a desire to stoke further unrest in the Kashmir Valley. It could also be some re-balancing between the civilian and military authorities as Prime Minister Sharif awaits court judgement on the Panama Papers charges. At any rate, Pakistan has succeeded in capturing media space and the Indian government\u2019s attention and thus mainstreaming its grouses even as a new U.S. president shapes his foreign policy.
 The Indian opposition has adopted a jingoistic pitch to entrap a government mixing politics, religion and nationalism. If assurances in Parliament are that the government will do \u201call\u201d in its power to rescue Mr. Jadhav, either it is confident of a Cold War-style exchange of spies, provided they have managed to secure the asset that went missing from Nepal, or it is upping the ante hoping that Pakistan will not want to escalate tensions further.
 India misperceives Pakistan, as the 19th century French statesman Talleyrand said the world did Russia, as it is neither as strong as it seems nor as weak as we think. For instance, it is not isolated, as policymakers in South Block assume. Pakistan would have seen rising Chinese rhetoric over the Dalai Lama\u2019s visit to Tawang. It also would read U.S. President Donald Trump\u2019s intervention in Syria and the dropping of the \u2018mother of all bombs\u2019 in Afghanistan as the U.S. returning to business as usual and restoring the primacy of its Sunni allies, i.e. Turkey, Saudi Arabia, plus the Gulf Cooperation Council, Pakistan, and Egypt. Pakistan is familiar with the generals now ruling the roost after White House chief strategist Stephen Bannon\u2019s fall.
 A Sino-Pak alliance now fed by China\u2019s open hostility and not countered by the U.S.\u2019s words of restraint may entrap India into a regional morass. Many assumptions on which the Modi government has functioned in diplomacy are being rewritten. The challenge is to steer India through this maze with more than jingoism, theatre, and domestic electoral needs.
 K.C. Singh is a former diplomat.
 \nKulbhushan Jadhav\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: \nPTI\n , The lack of investigative support from Iran on the Kulbhushan Jadhav case has raised questions about the overall state Tehran-New Delhi security cooperation, say experts. Iran is a strategic partner in India\u2019s outreach to Afghanistan and Central Asia, but its silence on the Kulbhushan case has baffled many.
 \u201cIran has nothing to gain in getting involved in the case of Kulbhushan Jadhav and perhaps that is why they have not responded to our request for information on how he was nabbed by Pakistan,\u201d said the former Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran.
 Tehran\u2019s silence became clear when the External Affairs Ministry said it had not responded to India\u2019s request for investigation in the case.
 \u201cWe have informed the government of Iran last year about this matter. As to the progress of investigation, if they are conducting and where it is, I don\u2019t have any information at this stage,\u201d said Ministry spokesperson Gopal Baglay. India has maintained that Kulbushan Jadhav had been engaged in \u201clegitimate business\u201d in the Iranian port of Chabahar and was kidnapped by Pakistani agents. However, this part of the Indian narrative can be corroborated only if Iran comes forward with an investigation.
 After years of cooperation, the port of Chabahar received more attention during the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Tehran last May when both sides signed a trilateral agreement with Kabul to develop the port and connect it with Afghanistan.
 Mr Saran said Iran understands well that its careful balancing of ties between Pakistan and India would be affected if it were to support India with detailed information that would implicate Pakistan or put India in an uncomfortable position.
 \u201cIran always feels that India balances the Arab Gulf countries with Tehran, but the fact is that Iran also balances its ties with Pakistan with its India connections,\u201d Mr. Saran said.
 Iran and Pakistan had also clashed over alleged Indian espionage from Chabahar during President Hasan Rouhani\u2019s March 2016 visit to Pakistan.
 Pakistan had aired the video of Kulbhushan Jadhav\u2019s alleged confession on disruptive activities in Pakistan during Mr. Rouhani\u2019s visit and linked it to Chabahar, which drew a strong response from Iran\u2019s envoy to Pakistan.
 Commentators also believe that Iran is uncomfortable with India\u2019s growing proximity to Saudi Arabia and the UAE and its non-cooperation on the case of Mr. Jadhav is indicative of a larger bilateral problem.
 \u201cIndia\u2019s growing ties with GCC states are naturally viewed by Iran with some concern. India should try to upgrade strategic ties with Iran especially since they have been steady security partners since the late 1980s,\u201d said Parvez Nayeri, an Iranian commentator.
 He also pointed out that bilateral energy ties were also not in the best shape because of Iran-India disagreement over the Farzad-B gas field which Iran had promised to India. Following pricing issues over the gas field, India has begun to cut gas imports from Iran.
 Mr. Saran said Iran was choosing to be prudent in avoiding the problems over espionage between India and Pakistan, as the benefits of being non-cooperative far outweigh the gains.
 Pakistan has prepared a new dossier on alleged militant activities of Kulbhushan Jadhav and will share it with the UN and foreign envoys stationed here, media reports say. , The new dossier is based on Jadhav\u2019s early testimony and statements given in front of the Field General Court Martial about his alleged involvement in espionage and sabotage activities in Karachi and Balochistan, reports said. , The document contains the attested report of Court Martial General, as well as the court proceedings timeline.
 Jadhav (46) was tried through Field General Court Martial (FGCM) under the Pakistan Army Act (PAA) and was awarded the death sentence. Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa confirmed the death sentence last week.
 Pakistan claims its security forces had arrested Jadhav from the restive Balochistan province on March 3 last year after he reportedly entered from Iran. It also claimed that he was \u201ca serving officer in the Indian Navy.\u201d , The Pakistan Army had also released a \u201cconfessional video\u201d of Jadhav after his arrest.
 \nformer Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of 'espionage'. \xa0 , Commander Kulbhushan Jadhav, now condemned to death by a Pakistani military court martial, had an uneventful childhood, as a police officer\u2019s son growing up in the N.M. Joshi Marg police colony in Mumbai. He was more inclined towards sports than studies, say his friends, and eventually got into the National Defence Academy at Khadakwasla in Pune, and became a naval officer. Those who have known him from his Navy days say there wasn\u2019t anything remarkable about him.
 What is he accused of?, The ordinariness of Jadhav\u2019s life ended in March last year when the Pakistan authorities arrested him, on charges of being an Indian spy carrying out terrorist attacks in Balochistan, targeting Pakistan-China interests. Jadhav burst onto the national and international limelight a few weeks later, when Pakistan announced the arrest of an alleged Research and Analysis Wing (R&amp;AW) spy in the restive Balochistan province, at a press conference in Islamabad.
 Officials released a spliced and edited CD in which Jadhav is seen \u201cconfessing\u201d to having been a spy for more than a decade. \u201cI commenced intelligence operation in 2003 and established a small business in Chabahar in Iran as I was able to achieve undetected existence and visits to Karachi in 2003 and 2004,\u201d he says in the video.
 Jadhav said he was recruited by RAW in 2013 and he had since been directing various activities in Balochistan and Karachi at the behest of the Indian intelligence agency, with a view to engaging Baloch separatists to target infrastructure work on the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. \u201cThese activities have been of criminal nature, leading to killing of or maiming of Pakistani citizens,\u201d he said. , How was he captured? , According to the Pakistani CD, Jadhav said he was trying to cross over into Pakistan from the Saravan border in Iran on March 3, 2016, when he was captured by Pakistani authorities. The Pakistani Army claims he used an Indian passport under an assumed name, Hussein Mubarak Patel, which stated that he belonged to Sangli.
 What is India\u2019s reaction? , While the Indian authorities accepted that Jadhav was a former Navy officer, the government has denied allegations that he is a spy. Jadhav, who retired from the Navy in 2001, established a small business in the Chabahar Free Trade Zone in Iran, where he reportedly operated a mechanised dhow named Kaminda, and the government believes he was kidnapped in Iran and brought forcibly into Pakistan to try and implicate India with allegations of espionage and terrorism.
 It is particularly significant that Jadhav\u2019s arrest was announced even as Pakistani investigating officials were being shown evidence of the attack on the Pathankot airbase in India. , How will it affect ties?, This is the latest flashpoint in the long and embittered saga of India-Pakistan ties. On April 10, the Pakistan Army announced that a Field General Court Martial had sentenced Jadhav to death, after three-and-a-half months of trial. , The sentence was confirmed by Army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa. Many in Pakistan were taken by surprise, and according to a widely believed theory, the intelligence agencies in Pakistan wanted to pre-empt the announcement by Indian agencies of the capture of a high-level ISI spy last seen in Lumbini, Nepal, earlier this month.
 What next for Jadhav?, The government says it won\u2019t spare any effort to secure the life of Jadhav, who is innocent, but admits that it has no knowledge of where he is being held, nor has it received any information from Iran on how he may have been spirited there. , On Friday, India again sought consular access to Jadhav in Pakistan, which has rejected 13 earlier requests. India has also rejected Pakistan\u2019s demand that it accept Jadhav was a spy and cooperate in the investigation in return for consular access to him, and has warned that Pakistan\u2019s refusal to accord access is in contravention of international law. \u201cUnder these circumstances, we have no choice but to regard the sentence, if carried out, as an act of pre-meditated murder,\u201d External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj warned in Parliament.
 The snowballing crisis over Pakistan delivering the death penalty to arrested former navy official Kulbhushan Jadhav, has hit the bilateral talks between the coast guards of India and Pakistan. A coastal security source confirmed that the talks that were scheduled for 17 April has been cancelled, even though the Ministry of External Affairs has not issued a statement on the matter.
 \u201cThe high level meeting scheduled for 17 April between Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) has been cancelled,\u201d said an official source of the ICG to The Hindu on Saturday explaining that the decision to cancel the meeting was taken on Friday by officials. The talks were expected to deal with the issue of fishermen, captured boats and issues like smuggling.
 \n, \nIndia to appeal against Jadhav\u2019s death sentence, seeks consular access again\n, This is the first indication of cancellation of official-level interactions between India and Pakistan since the death sentence was issued to Mr. Jadhav earlier this week. It is likely that more steps could follow based on Pakistan\u2019s response to India\u2019s latest request for consular access for Mr Jadhav.
 Pakistan has not reverted responding to the latest request for consular access that was conveyed to them on Friday by India\u2019s High Commissioner to Pakistan.
 \u201cAs far as we are concerned, we have asked for 14th time yesterday for consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav and there has been no reply yet,\u201d said a diplomatic source.
 The diplomatic answer came in the backdrop of media reports that Pakistan had already declined Friday\u2019s request for consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav.
 \n, \nMany options to save Jadhav\n, \xa0, \nEx-servicemen protest outside Pakistan High Commission, demanding release of former Indian naval commander Kulbhushan Jadhav. in New Delhi.\n\xa0 , India on Friday sought consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav, the retired Navy officer who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of spying, and demanded a certified copy of the charge sheet as well as the judgment.
 \u201cWe have stated that he [Mr. Jadhav] is an Indian national and as per international law and humanitarian considerations, let us at least have consular access to him,\u201d Gautam Bambawale, Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad, told reporters here after a meeting with Pakistan\u2019s Foreign Secretary Tehmina Janjua.
 \u201cWe would definitely go in appeal against the judgment but we cannot do it unless we have the details of the charges and the copy of the verdict. So, my first demand was to provide us the details of the charge sheet and the copy of the verdict,\u201d he said.
 Pakistan, he said, has so far denied 13 times India\u2019s request for consular access.
 After Mr. Bambawale\u2019s meeting with the Foreign Secretary, Pakistan defended the trial of Mr. Jadhav and said he could appeal against the verdict.
 \u201cDue process has been followed while proceeding against him. All further action in this regard shall also be taken in accordance with our laws,\u201d Sartaj Aziz, Adviser to the Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs, told reporters at the Foreign Office here.
 Mr. Jadhav can appeal within 40 days to an appellate court, or may lodge a mercy petition to the Army Chief within 60 days of the decision by the appellate court.
 If the Army Chief rejects the plea, he can file another with the President in 90 days, Mr. Aziz added.
 Defending Pakistan\u2019s position on consular access, he said India had not provided the facility to many Pakistani prisoners in the past despite repeated requests.
 \u201cWe expect India to behave responsibly and refrain from issuing statements that will further aggravate people-to-people hostility.\u201d, \u201cMore active diplomacy is therefore needed to arrest the growing crises in India-Pakistan relations before it becomes even more serious,\u201d said Mr. Aziz.
 He said Mr. Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016 when he was operating under a pseudonym Mubarak Patel.
 \u201cKulbhushan Jadhav was found in possession of a passport issued by the Government of India on May 12, 2015 and valid until May 11, 2024. Jadhav confessed that he is a resident of Mumbai, India, still serving in the Indian Navy and his retirement is due in 2022.\u201d, According to Mr. Aziz, Mr. Jadhav was tried by Field General Court Martial under section 59 of the Pakistan Army Act 1952 and Section 3 of Official Secret Act of 1923 and he was provided with a legal counsel in accordance with provisions of the law of the land.
 Mr. Aziz said the proceedings of this case went through different stages over a period of one year. Mr. Jadhav\u2019s confessional video statement was taken on March 25, 2016, the initial FIR was registered in Quetta, Balochistan, on April 8 and initial interrogation was conducted on May 2. Detailed interrogation was held on May 22 and a joint investigation team was set up on July 12, he explained.
 Mr. Aziz said all statements of witnesses were recorded under oath and in the presence of the accused.
 India has rejected the espionage charges levelled against Mr. Jadhav and said that if the death sentence is carried out, New Delhi would consider it as a premeditated murder.
 \u201cMore active diplomacy is therefore needed to arrest the growing crises in India-Pakistan relations before it becomes even more serious,\u201d said Mr. Aziz.
 He said Mr. Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016 when he was operating under a pseudonym Mubarak Patel.
 \u201cKulbhushan Jadhav was found in possession of a passport issued by the Government of India on May 12, 2015 and valid until May 11, 2024. Jadhav confessed that he is a resident of Mumbai, India, still serving in the Indian Navy and his retirement is due in 2022.\u201d, According to Mr. Aziz, Mr. Jadhav was tried by Field General Court Martial under section 59 of the Pakistan Army Act 1952 and Section 3 of Official Secret Act of 1923 and he was provided with a legal counsel in accordance with provisions of the law of the land.
 Mr. Aziz said the proceedings of this case went through different stages over a period of one year. Mr. Jadhav\u2019s confessional video statement was taken on March 25, 2016, the initial FIR was registered in Quetta, Balochistan, on April 8 and initial interrogation was conducted on May 2. Detailed interrogation was held on May 22 and a joint investigation team was set up on July 12, he explained.
 Mr. Aziz said all statements of witnesses were recorded under oath and in the presence of the accused.
 India has rejected the espionage charges levelled against Mr. Jadhav and said that if the death sentence is carried out, New Delhi would consider it as a premeditated murder.
 The Lahore High Court Bar Association said on Friday that it would act against any lawyer who extended services to Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court.
 \u201cThe Lahore High Court Bar Association (LHBA) has unanimously decided to cancel the membership of any lawyer who offers his services to Indian spy Kulbhushan Jadhav,\u201d LHBA secretary-general Amer Saeed Raan said. , He said the bar had asked the government not to yield to any foreign pressure. \u201cIndia has declared Jadhav its son and is putting pressure on the Pakistani government for his release. We demand that the Indian spy, who is involved in playing with the lives of Pakistanis, not be spared and the government ensure his hanging,\u201d he said.
 Earlier, Pakistan\u2019s top military commanders made it clear that \u201cno compromise\u201d shall be made on such \u201canti-state acts.\u201d, (With inputs from PTI), \nA differently-abled person participates in a signature campaign against the death sentence to former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav by Pakistani military court, in Nagpur. \xa0 | Photo Credit: S. Sudarshan ,  Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad Gautam Bambawale will be meeting Pakistan Foreign Secretary Tehmina Janjua in connection with the case of retired Indian navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been given death sentence by an army court there.
 According to sources, Mr. Bambawale is expected to raise the issue of consular access to Mr. Jadhav as Pakistan has rejected 13 of India\u2019s requests for the same in the last one year.
 Apart from diplomatic options, India will also explore legal remedies permitted under Pakistan legal system including Mr. Jadhav\u2019s family appealing against the verdict. , \nAlleged Indian spy Kulbushan Yadav during a press conference in Islamabad in this March 29, 2016 photo. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAFP\n , Pakistan\u2019s military on Thursday said there would not be any compromise on the death sentence given to Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav for espionage and sabotage.
 The top commanders of the military met on Thursday at the General Headquarters in Rawalpindi. They were briefed about Mr. Jadhav and it was concluded that \u201cno compromise shall be made on such anti-state acts\u201d, according to a statement by the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), the military\u2019s media wing.
 The statement comes amid intense speculation in Islamabad about a possible swap of Mr. Jadhav with a retired Pakistani Colonel who disappeared on the Nepal-India border. Lt. Col. (Retd) Habib Zahir\u2019s family believed that he might have been trapped by the Indian intelligence agencies.
 Earlier, Foreign Office spokesman Nafees Zakariya said the Jadhav episode was \u201can irrefutable proof of the Indian state\u2019s involvement in terrorism, subversion and terror financing in Pakistan\u201d. At a news briefing, he said Mr. Jadhav had made repeated confessions.
 Brothers Karl and Walter LaGrand, German nationals permanently residing in the U.S.
 were arrested in 1982 in Arizona for an attempted bank robbery. The bank manager was killed and an employee seriously injured. In 1984, they were convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to death. , The LaGrands being German nationals, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, 1963 requires the competent U.S. authorities to inform them of their right to communicate with the German consulate.
 Article 36 of the Convention allowed consular officers the right to access, converse and correspond with nationals in prison, custody or detention and arrange private legal representation \u2014 a lawyer of the nationals\u2019 own choice \u2014 to defend them during trial. None of this occurred in the case of the LaGrands. In fact, the German consulate knew of their predicament only in 1992 after the siblings reached out to it. , Germany brought the LaGrand case to the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague against the U.S. for breach of Article 36 of the Convention barely a week after Karl was executed on February 24, 1999. The ICJ issued an order of injunction to prevent Walter from being executed. But on March 3, Walter too was executed.
 Closer home, Pakistan and India have accepted the Vienna Convention of 1963. News reports from Pakistan suggest that Pakistani authorities \u201crepeatedly refused\u201d Indian consular officers access to the former Navy personnel, Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been found guilty by a military court of espionage activities.
 India can move the ICJ for an immediate injunction against Mr. Jadhav\u2019s death sentence. It can present a case against Pakistan for breach of the rights of Mr. Jadhav under Article 36 of the Vienna Convention by depriving Indian consular officers of the possibility to render him assistance.
 India can seek a \u201creview and re-consideration\u201d of the conviction and death sentence awarded to Mr. Jadhav in the light of the rights set forth by Article 36. A pending case in the ICJ would deter Pakistan from executing Mr. Jadhav before the final decision of the ICJ. Further, it may prevent something like this from happening in the future on the part of either country.
 The LaGrand case saw the U.S. undertake a \u201ccommitment\u201d to ensure implementation of specific measures adopted in the performance of its obligations under Article 36 in case a foreign national is taken into custody, detained or imprisoned. A similar \u2018commitment\u2019 can be extracted from Pakistan before the ICJ if Mr. Jadhav\u2019s case is taken there.
 India should not rush into negotiations with Pakistan to free the former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been awarded the death sentence by Pakistan, veteran diplomats said on Wednesday. They said India had several bilateral and multilateral options to free Mr. Jadhav, who was accused of sabotage and tried in a military court. , \u201cOne option before India is to ask [U.S.] President Trump to prevail upon the Pakistan military to release Mr. Jadhav. It is highly unlikely that any request to shift Mr. Jadhav to a civil court would work,\u201d said Chinmaya Gharekhan, who has worked in conflict situations and had been a special envoy of the government.
 Mr. Gharekhan said Mr. Jadhav\u2019s case was unique in the history of India-Pakistan hostility and was reminiscent of a Cold War spy drama. , \u201cThe other option is to exchange Mr. Jadhav with a Pakistani intelligence official, who, according to some reports, was captured by the Indian agencies from India-Nepal border. If the report of arrest of the Pakistani official is correct, then the government may consider exchanging him with Mr. Jadhav,\u201d said Mr. Gharekhan. Reports have suggested that Lt. Col. Muhammad Habib Zahir, a former ISI official, who reportedly conducted anti-India activities on the India-Nepal border, was arrested by India some time ago. , Peculiar case, Some diplomats have recommended that India should not hurry in responding to this move by Pakistan as the case is peculiar. \u201cWhat makes this case particularly peculiar is that a foreign national has been court-martialled and the grounds on which he was court-martialled is not at all clear,\u201d said TCA Raghavan, former High Commissioner of India to Islamabad. , He said there were many instances when individuals suspected of being spies were given the death sentence in the usual courts of law in Pakistan and therefore the issue was why a normal legal process was avoided in this case.
 Diplomats also said that India woud have to deliberate upon what kind of response would be befitting if Pakistan executed Mr. Jadhav. , \u201cEven long-standing bilateral agreements could come up for reversal, if Pakistan executes Jadhav,\u201d said a diplomat, who urged that officials should not issue belligerent statements at this moment as such statements cannot do any good. , Pakistan\u2019s sudden announcement on Monday that former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav has been sentenced to death by a Field General Court Martial is a development fraught with danger. It could lead to a rapid escalation in bilateral tensions that the region can ill afford. The trial, sentencing, and its confirmation by the Pakistan Army chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, were carried out so secretly that the news took many in Pakistan as well by surprise. There are glaring holes in the procedures followed by Pakistan\u2019s government and military in the investigation and trial of Mr. Jadhav. His recorded confession that was broadcast at a press conference within weeks of his arrest in March 2016 appeared to have been spliced. At various points in the tape, and in the transcript of the confession made available, Mr. Jadhav contradicts his own statements, suggesting that he had been tutored. Even if the confession was admissible in a court of law, little by way of corroborative evidence has been offered by Pakistan to back up the claim that Mr. Jadhav, who was allegedly arrested in Balochistan last year, had been plotting operations against the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj\u2019s statement in Parliament detailing 13 requests by the government for consular access, and replies from the Pakistan government that made the access conditional on India cooperating in the investigation, further casts the procedures followed in a rather poor light. International human rights agencies too have criticised them. Mr. Jadhav must be allowed a retrial, preferably in a civil court and with recourse to appeal.
  , \nIn Lower Parel, a campaign for Jadhav\n, New Delhi must step up its responses in the matter, as it seems to have kept it on the backburner, confining itself to fruitless, repeated representations. India must also pursue the issue with Iran, where Mr. Jadhav is believed to have been based for more than a decade, and investigate how he was brought, by force or otherwise, into Pakistan. The timing of the announcement of the death sentence is also being seen in a spy versus spy context, with the recent disappearance of a former Pakistan Army officer in Nepal. These are matters best left to security agencies at the highest level, but the questions around Mr. Jadhav\u2019s arrest need to be dispelled. Moreover, this escalation highlights the consequences of the breakdown in the India-Pakistan dialogue process, limiting the channels of communication between the two governments to sort out matters in a sober manner. The government has stood fast on its decision to not hold bilateral talks after the Pathankot attack in January 2016, but this policy is hardly likely to bring the desired results when a man\u2019s life hangs in the balance. The Jadhav case requires a proactive three-pronged response from India: impressing on Pakistan that the death sentence must not be carried out, explaining to the international community the flawed trial process, and sending interlocutors to open backchannels for diplomacy for Mr. Jadhav\u2019s safe return home.
 \nFile photo of former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: PTI , Questions over a possible link between a former Pakistani army officer who went missing in Nepal last week and the sentencing of former Indian naval Commander Kulbushan Jadhav by a Pakistani army court to death arose as details emerged of the two incidents.
 Lt. Col. (retd.) Muhammad Habib Zahir landed in Kathmandu on Thursday last, purportedly looking for a job, and since then he has been missing.
 His family and friends have told Pakistani media that they suspect that he was kidnapped by Indian agencies.
 While there is no indication from any Indian sources about a link between Lt. Col. Zahir\u2019s disappearance and Indian agencies, speculation has intensified since the award of the death sentence to Jadhav.
 Indian officials viewed the Pakistani move to publicise Jadhav's death penalty as a pre-emptive measure in case India were to disclose that it had Lt. Col. Zahir in its custody.
 \u201cTiming is important. They think that their missing officer is in Indian custody. By announcing the death sentence to Jadhav they think they have pre-empted an Indian disclosure, and believe that now if India were to make any move on that front, it could be projected as a retaliation,\u201d an official source told The Hindu.
 At least two sources who had personally known Jadhav when he was in the Navy said it [a link between Lt. Col. Zahir and Jadhav\u2019s sentencing] was a hopeful sign. \u201cIf that is so then [we] can hope that he would be back home one day,\u201d one of them said.
 An FIR registered by Lt. Col. Zahir\u2019s son, Saad Habib, claimed that he was received by a man named Javaid Ansari at the Kathmandu airport on April 6. Since then he has not contacted his family, who have claimed that he received an interview call from a U.K. telephone number generated via the Internet. He also received an email from career@startsolutions.biz.
 Lt. Col. Zahir, who reportedly retired from the army in 2014, has also worked with the United Nation\u2019s peace mission for two years, Pakistani media said. He then joined a Pakistani food company and was looking for other job offers.
 According to Pakistan media reports, he was contacted by a man named Mark Thompson, who offered him a job at an international company StartSolution.biz, and called him for an interview to Nepal.
 Saad said the initial probe by the family and friends revealed that the British telephone number from which the officer got the job offer was computer generated and the email domain and its associated website were registered in India.
 \nPakistan Defence Minister Khawaja Muhammad Asif \xa0 , Pakistan\u2019s Defence Minister Khawaja Asif on Tuesday said former Indian naval officer Kulbushan Jadhav, who has been sentenced to death by a military court for alleged involvement in espionage, can appeal before the Army chief and the President in 60 days and that the country would follow the legal course in the case.
 Speaking in the Senate, the upper house of Parliament, he criticised India's response to Jadhav\u2019s conviction. \u201cAll I want to say is that we have followed all the rules and regulations, and the laws of the land. Instead.\u201d\xa0, Pakistan would not allow anyone to work against the security and the stability of the country. \u201cThe government of Pakistan is in a position to deal with all such elements with an iron fist,\u201d he said.
 \n, \nWho is Kulbushan Jadhav?\n, India on Monday responded strongly to the death sentence by summoning the Pakistani High Commissioner in Delhi and issuing a protest note, which stated that if Jadhav is executed, India would regard it \u201cas a case of premeditated murder\u201d.\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0, Meanwhile, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said Pakistan\u2019s armed forces were fully capable and prepared to respond to any spectrum of threat. \u201cThe nation has full trust in the country\u2019s armed forces,\u201d he said, assuring the forces have the government\u2019s full support in equipping them to address the modern day challenges.
 Addressing the passing out parade at Pakistan Air Force Academy (PAF) Asghar Khan in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Mr. Sharif said Pakistan wants friendly relationship with all its neighbours. Cooperation, rather than conflict and shared prosperity rather than mutual suspicion is the hallmark of Pakistan\u2019s policy, he added.
 \u201cPakistan is a peace loving country and has always maintained the policy of having friendly relations with other countries particularly its neighbours.\u201d\xa0, The Prime Minister said Pakistan on its part would never hesitate to extend the hand of friendship to all and would never waver from returning goodwill with even more goodwill. However, \u201cdespite our desire for peaceful coexistence, we cannot remain oblivious to defending our sovereignty and protecting our independence\u201d.
 (With inputs from PTI), \nA passport (No. L9630722), purportedly belonging to Kulbhushan Jadhav, showed his assumed name as \u2018Hussein Mubarak Patel\u2019.\n\xa0 , Several observers and intelligence sources have questioned the legality of the Pakistan Army\u2019s court martial and award of the death sentence to former Indian naval Commander Kulbushan Jadhav.
 According to an official Pakistan statement, Chief of the Army Staff General Qamar Javed Bajwa confirmed the death sentence.
 \u201cI think it can be challenged diplomatically,\u201d a former intelligence chief said.
 Indian officials believe that Jadhav has been sentenced under the controversial amendments to the Army Act introduced two years ago, which allows civilians to be tried under terrorism charges secretly in army courts. In the past two years, under the provision, 160 people have been sentenced to death.
 \u201cIt is legally not a very tenable thing. How could they apply the same provision to an unarmed foreigner whose identity is known?\u201d another officer said.
 \u201cI can\u2019t recall another instance of an army general court martial sentencing an Indian like this,\u201d a retired intelligence officer said. \u201cWe have had Pakistani civil courts sentencing Indians accused of spying,\u201d he said.
 Another retired official speculated that the Pakistani court martial proceedings would not only name R&amp;AW (Research &amp; Analysis Wing) but some of its officials. \u201cIt is not good news for us,\u201d he said.
 \u201cAs far as we are concerned, he is a veteran who retired about 15 years ago. Beyond that we do not know anything,\u201d a senior naval officer said.
 Jadhav joined the National Defence Academy in 1987 and was commissioned into the Navy in 1991.
 According to the Navy, he retired from service in December 2001.
 The award of the death sentence to Jadhav has been received with much disbelief by his former naval colleagues and intelligence circles, though most of them were confident that he would be back home.
 \nForeign Secretary S Jaishankar issued a strongly-worded demarche to the Pakistan High Commissioner to India\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAP\n , Angered by Pakistan\u2019s decision to award the death sentence to Kulbushan Jadhav, a top government official said on Monday that India would stall the release of 12 Pakistani prisoners, who were to be repatriated this week.
 India took the decision after Pakistan army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa approved the death sentence for Jadhav, who was arrested in March 2016, allegedly in Balochistan for alleged "espionage and sabotage" activities.
 The repatriation of Pakistani prisoners who had completed their sentences has been in practice since 2008 when India and Pakistan signed a joint agreement. Since May 2014, when the NDA government came to power, around 80 Pakistani prisoners were deported after serving their sentences.
 \u201cIt is not the right time for the release of Pakistani prisoners. We are planning harsher steps to protest the death sentence to Jadhav,\u201d said the official.
 The death sentence to Jadhav, 46, was confirmed by the Pakistan army chief after the Field General Court Martial (FGCM) found him guilty of "all the charges", as stated by the military's media wing, Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), in Rawalpindi.
 Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar summoned the Pakistan High Commissioner Abdul Basit and issued a strongly worded demarche.
 \nA passport (No. L9630722), purportedly belonging to Kulbhushan Jadhav, shows his assumed name as \u2018Hussein Mubarak Patel\u2019.\n\xa0 , Kulbushan Jadhav was allegedly arrested in the Chaman area of Balochistan on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border\xa0on March 3, 2016.
 Pakistan said he was a serving Indian naval officer and accused him of working for India\u2019s Research and Analysis Wing (RAW). Pakistan also produced a passport (No. L9630722), purportedly belonging to him, which showed his assumed name as \u2018Hussein Mubarak Patel\u2019, born in Sangli, Maharashtra, and living in Powai, as well as a valid Iranian visa in his name.
 \n, \nFull text of Kulbhushan Jadhav's alleged confession , India denied that he had any links to its government but said that he was running a business in the Iranian port city of Chabahar after a \u201cpremature retirement\u201d from the Navy.\xa0India was denied consular access to him.
 The Ministry of External Affairs said he was facing \u201charassment\u201d and had probably been kidnapped from Iran.\xa0, There were some reports that the Taliban had sold him off to Pakistan.\xa0, On March 29, 2016, Jadhav was seen in a video saying he was a RAW official. In the video, played at a press conference\xa0of\xa0the\xa0Inter Services\xa0Public Relations of the Pakistan military, he said he left the Navy to join RAW in 2013 and went to Chabahar to set up a business outlet there to carry out \u201coperations\u201d in Balochistan and Karachi.
 Pakistan has protested several times over what it calls India's support to Baloch national groups, waging an insurgency in Pakistan. India has denied the charge, but this was the first time that Pakistan alleged it has arrested a serving officer of RAW.
 Jadhav's\xa0death sentence was approved by Pakistan\u2019s Army chief on Monday.
 Following is the full text of Kulbhushan Jadhav's\xa0 alleged confession as shown at a press conference.
 This press conference was jointly addressed by Pakistan's Minister for Information, Broadcasting and National Heritage Senator Pervaiz Rashid and Inter-Services Public Relations Director General Lieutenant General Asim Saleem Bajwa at the Press Information Department earlier.
 \u201cMy name is Commander Kulbhushan Yadav and I am the serving officer of Indian Navy. I am from the cadre of engineering department of Indian Navy and my cover name was Hussein Mubarik Patel, which I had taken for doing some intelligence gathering for Indian agencies.
 \u201cI joined the National Defence Academy in 1987 and subsequently joined Indian Navy in Jan 1991 and subsequently served for the Indian Navy till around December 2001 when the Parliament attack occurred and that is when I started contributing my services towards gathering of information and intelligence within India.
 \u201cI live in the city of Mumbai in India. I am still the serving officer in the Indian Navy and will be due for retirement by 2022 as a commissioned officer in Indian Navy after having completed 14 years of service by 2002.
 \u201cI commenced intelligence operation in 2003 and established a small business in Chabahar in Iran as I was able to achieve undetected existence and visits to Karachi in 2003 and 2004 and having done some basic assignments within India for RAW.
 \u201cI was picked up by RAW in 2013 end. Ever since I have been directing various activities in Balochistan and Karachi at the behest of RAW and deteriorating law and order situation in Karachi, I was basically the man for Mr. Anil Kumar Gupta who is the joint secretary of RAW and his contacts in Pakistan especially in Balochistan Student Organisation.
 \u201cMy purpose was to hold meetings with Baloch insurgents and carry out activities with their collaboration.\u201cThese activities have been of criminal nature, leading to killing of or maiming of Pakistani citizens.
 \u201cI realise during this process that RAW is involved in some activities related to the Baloch liberation movement within Pakistan and the region around it.
 \u201cThere are finances which are fed into the Baloch movement through various contacts or various ways and means into the Baloch liberation (movement) and various activities of the Baloch liberation and RAW handlers go towards activities which are criminal, which are anti-national, which can lead to maiming or killing of people within Pakistan and mostly these activities were centred around of what I have knowledge is of ports of Gwadar, Pasni Jewani and various other installations, which are around the coast damaging various other installations, which are in Balochistan.
 \u201cSo the activity seems to be revolving and trying to create a criminal sort of mindset within the Baloch liberation which leads to instability within Pakistan. In my pursuit towards achieving the set targets by my handlers in RAW, I was trying to cross over into Pakistan from the Saravan border in Iran on March 3, 2016, and was apprehended by Pakistani authorities while on the Pakistani side and the main aim of this crossing over into Pakistan was to hold (a) meeting with Baloch separatists in Balochistan for carrying out various activities, which they were supposed to undertake and carrying backwards the messages which had to deliver to Indian agencies.
 \u201cThe main issues regarding this were that they were planning to conduct some operations within the next immediate (near) future so that was to be discussed mainly and that was the main aim of trying to coming into Pakistan.
 \u201cSo that moment I realised that my intelligence operations have been compromised on my being detained in Pakistan, I revealed that I am an Indian naval officer, and it is on mentioning that I am Indian naval officer, the total perception of the establishment of the Pakistani side changed and they treated me very honourably and they did utmost respect and due regards and have handled me subsequently on a more professional and proper courteous way and they have handled me in a way that befits that of an officer and once I realised that I have been compromised in my process of intelligence operations, I decided to just end the mess I have landed myself in and just wanted to subsequently move on and cooperate with the authorities in removing complications which I have landed myself and my family members into, and whatever I am stating just now, it is the truth and it is not under any duress or pressure. I am doing it totally out of my own desire to mention and come clean out of this entire process which I have gone through last 14 years.\u201d, \nMembers of the Pakistan media watch a projection of a video showing arrested man Kulbhushan Yadav -- suspected of being an Indian spy -- during a press conference in Islamabad in this March 29, 2016 photo. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAFP\n , A Pakistani military court on Monday sentenced to death a former Indian Navy official, Kulbhushan Jadhav, accusing him of espionage and working for the India\u2019s external intelligence agency, R&amp;AW.
 The sentencing of Mr. Jadhav (46), was confirmed by army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa after the Field General Court Martial (FGCM) found him guilty of \u201call the charges\u201d, said the military\u2019s media wing, Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR).
 \n, \nPakistan envoy summoned over Kulbushan Jadhav\u2019s sentencing\n, Indian embassy officials have been repeatedly refused access to Mr. Jadhav throughout the trial process.
 Mr Jadhav was arrested from Balochistan on March 3 last year, with Pakistani authorities alleging that he was involved in subversive activities in the province.
 Announcing the order, military spokesman Major General Asif Ghafoor said in a tweet: \u201cIndian RAW Agent Kulbhushan awarded death sentence through Court Marshal by Pakistan Army for for espionage and sabotage activities against Pakistan\u201d.
 \n, \nFull text of Kulbhushan Jadhav's alleged confession , The ISPR statement also said the accused was provided with defending officer as per legal process. However, the specific charges were never made public.
  , \n\u2018Jadhav sentence can be challenged\u2019\n, Lawyers familiar with the Army Act trials said there is very limited right of appeal available to the accused. They said the accused cannot challenge the charges but only the jurisdiction. The appeals will also be heard by military officials but of higher rank.
 However, since Army Chief General Bajwa has already confirmed the sentence, there is little chance of relief for Mr. Jadhav, sources said.
 The ISPR release that followed Major Ghafoor\u2019s tweet, stated that Indian Raw Agent/Naval Officer Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav alias Hussain Mubarak Patel was arrested on March 3, 2016 through a counter intelligence operation from Mashkel, Balochistan for his involvement in espionage and sabotage activities against Pakistan.
 However, since Army Chief General Bajwa has already confirmed the sentence, there is little chance of relief for Mr Jadhav, sources said.
 \n, \nJadhav\u2019s family reaches out to MEA\n, Pakistan military claimed Mr. Jadhav had confessed before a magistrate that he was tasked by RAW to plan, coordinate and and organise espionage/sabotage activities.
 The ISPR release that followed Major Ghafoor\u2019s tweet, stated that Indian Raw Agent/Naval Officer Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav alias Hussain Mubarak Patel was arrested on March 3, 2016 through a counter intelligence operation from Mashkel, Balochistan for his involvement in espionage and sabotage activities against Pakistan.
 The activities were aimed at de-stabilising and wage war against Pakistan by impeding the efforts of law enforcement agencies for restoring peace in Balochistan and Karachi.
 The arrest of Mr. Jadhav was followed by intense diplomatic activity by Pakistan in terms of preparing dossiers for the United Nations alleging that India was trying to fuel insurgency in Baluchistan province.
 Former Pakistan army chief General Raheel Sharif also met with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani on his visit to Pakistan last year and expressed concern that RAW was using the soil of Iran to create unrest in Baluchistan and urged the Iranian President to ask India to stop such activities. Tehran agreed to allay Pakistan's concern.
 Following the summoning of Pakistani High Commissioner Abdul Basit in Delhi, the Foreign Office held a consultative meeting in Islamabad.
 \nMembers of the Pakistan media watch a projection of a video showing arrested man Kulbhushan Yadav -- suspected of being an Indian spy -- during a press conference in Islamabad in this March 29, 2016 photo. Pakistan Prime Minister\u2019s Adviser on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz on Wednesday admitted that the government was presented with only \u201cinsufficient evidence\u201d on Yadav, who is under detention.\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: \nAFP\n ,  Pakistan Prime Minister\u2019s Adviser on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz on Wednesday admitted that the government was presented with only \u201cinsufficient evidence\u201d on alleged Indian spy Kulbhushan Jadhav who is under detention.
 Addressing a full Senate chamber, Mr. Aziz said the dossier on Jadhav contained mere statements. \u201cIt did not have any conclusive evidence,\u201d he was quoted as saying by the Geo TV.
 \u201cWhat the dossier contained was not enough. Now it is up to the concerned authorities, how long they take to give us more matter on the agent,\u201d Aziz said.
 Mr. Jadhav, who was reportedly arrested in Balochistan after he entered from Iran, has been accused by Pakistan of planning \u201csubversive activities\u201d in the country.
 \u2018Confessional video\u2019, The Pakistan Army had also released a \u201cconfessional video\u201d of Mr. Jadhav, who said he was the serving Indian Navy officer.
 India has acknowledged Mr. Jadhav as a retired Indian Navy officer, but denied the allegation that he was in any way connected to the government.][]