NEW DELHI — The International Court of Justice ordered Pakistan on Thursday to stay the execution of an Indian naval officer convicted of espionage, the latest development in a high-profile case that has further strained relations in an already tense region. The court asked Pakistan to delay the execution of the officer, Kulbhushan Sudhir Jadhav, until it had a chance to rule on a case brought by India, which claims that Pakistan prevented Mr. Jadhav from having access to consular officials after his arrest. “Pakistan shall take all measures at its disposal to ensure that Mr. Jadhav is not executed pending the final decision in these proceedings and shall inform the Court of all the measures taken in implementation of the present order,” the court said in its order. Mr. Jadhav was arrested in March 2016 and charged with espionage and sabotage. He was accused by the Pakistani government of fomenting terrorist activities in the restive southwest province of Baluchistan and sentenced to death last month. The Pakistani authorities have pointed to his arrest as evidence of India’s involvement in terrorist activities in the country. The Indian government maintains that Mr. Jadhav was a retired naval officer who was conducting business in Iran when Pakistani officials kidnapped him there and took him to Pakistan. Mr. Jadhav was tried in a military court, drawing criticism from human rights activists, who said he was denied a fair trial. The case captured the public’s attention in both countries after the Indian government filed its case in the International Court of Justice, the United Nations body in The Hague, on May 8. India has claimed that Mr. Jadhav was not permitted to meet with consular officials during a rapid trial and sentencing, and that Pakistan violated the Vienna Convention. Indian officials celebrated the court’s order on Thursday. “The stand of the Indian government has been vindicated,” Mukul Rohatgi, India’s attorney general, told reporters. “The Indian government stand is really based on truth and justice and respect for human rights.” The office of Pakistan’s attorney general released a statement on Thursday that played down the court’s decision. “These measures have no bearing whatsoever on the final decision of the court,” the statement read. “We are confident that India would not be able to hide the subversive activities it is trying to carry out through its agents like Commander Jadhav.” Pakistan and India regularly convict each other’s citizens of espionage, but executions are rare. In 2013, an Indian man convicted of espionage and awaiting execution was beaten to death by fellow inmates in Pakistan, prompting an angry response from India. In 1999, Sheikh Shamim, an Indian convicted of espionage in Pakistan, was hanged there. Asad Jamal, a human rights lawyer based in Lahore, Pakistan, criticized Pakistan’s handling of Mr. Jadhav’s case. “I think it is quite a serious blow to Pakistan’s standing at the U.N., as well as to its image at the international level,” Mr. Jamal said. “I think Pakistan should withdraw from its position, which is contrary to international law and human rights norms, and allow consular access and an independent lawyer to Jadhav, and hold an open and fair trial.” 