LONDON — In a first demonstration of the new reality in Parliament after the recent election, Prime Minister Theresa May and her shaky new government buckled under pressure on Thursday and agreed to fund abortions in England for women from Northern Ireland. It was an abrupt rebuff to the Conservatives’ new ally, the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, a fierce opponent of abortion and gay marriage that had appeared to advance its socially conservative agenda this week by agreeing to keep Mrs. May in power. The issue is a delicate one because in Northern Ireland abortions are allowed only if a woman’s life is at risk or there is a permanent or serious risk to her physical or mental health. Pregnant women who travel to England, where the law is much less restrictive, currently have to pay for terminations. The about-face on the issue was bitterly denounced by abortion opponents. “This is a black day for unborn children, for mothers and for democracy,” said John Smeaton, chief executive of the Society for the Protection of Unborn Children. “It’s a great day for the abortion industry, which cares nothing about unborn children and for the welfare of women.” The government’s announcement came before a vote on the issue in Parliament, on an amendment forced by Stella Creasy, a lawmaker for the opposition Labour Party, and amid signs that some of Mrs. May’s Conservative Party legislators might rebel, putting her parliamentary majority in doubt. The concession underlines the precariousness of the government’s position, and its vulnerability to political ambush in Parliament, where it now runs the constant risk of losing votes after Mrs. May lost her majority in recent elections. On Thursday, the former chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, who was fired last year by Mrs. May and is now a newspaper editor, posted on Twitter his front page headline “Abortion vote chaos hits May” and adding as a commentary: Conservative worries about the ability to win votes in Parliament were displayed on Wednesday when the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, was summoned from Switzerland to vote on the Queen’s Speech, which outlines the government’s legislative program. On Thursday, Mrs. May left meetings in Berlin early to ensure that she could attend the final vote on the Queen’s Speech, which the government won by a vote of 323 to 309 with the help of the largely Protestant Democratic Unionist Party, or D.U.P. But their support has come with a political — as well as financial — price. Critics have denounced the deal with the D.U.P. as “shoddy” or “grubby,” because it was secured with a pledge of around $2 billion in additional spending for Northern Ireland. Scottish and Welsh politicians are particularly resentful, believing that their constituents should also have similar protection from budget cuts, but even some Conservative lawmakers are unhappy. “I can barely put into words my anger at the deal my party has done with the D.U.P.,” Heidi Allen, a Conservative legislator, said in Parliament. Others have suggested that because of its reliance on the D.U.P., the British government will no longer be able to act as an honest broker in trying to secure a power-sharing agreement among the political parties in Northern Ireland. Negotiations on that issue were extended on Thursday, despite the lack of agreement when the latest deadline expired in midafternoon. Under the deal with the Conservatives at Westminster, the D.U.P. guaranteed its support for Mrs. May’s party on crucial confidence and finance votes, and on the issue of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, effectively keeping the government from falling. Both the Conservative Party and the D.U.P. emphasize that they have not formed a coalition, and that their arrangement in Parliament falls short of a deal on a full policy program. As such, the decision to fund abortions does not breach any part of the accord. The government concession was announced by the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, who was asked by a Conservative lawmaker, Peter Bottomley, why, in the case of women from Northern Ireland, “only the poor should be denied lawful abortions.” Mr. Hammond replied that Justine Greening, the minister for women and equalities, was in the process of announcing by letter “that she intends to intervene to fund abortions in England for women arriving here from Northern Ireland.” The British Pregnancy Advisory Service, an organization that supports abortion rights, described the change as a “landmark moment,” but, in a statement added, “Clearly this is not the solution to the gross injustice whereby women in Northern Ireland are denied access to abortion care at home, and we look forward to seeing progress on that front.” Jo Swinson, a lawmaker from the centrist Liberal Democrats who supported the amendment on abortion, said the government’s decision showed “the power of cross-party pressure.” She added that it was “embarrassing that the health secretary had done nothing on this so far and only the threat of a defeat prompted change.” 