 [][][\nA name board is being put up at the office of Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa at the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru on May 17, 2018\n\xa0 | Photo Credit: Bageshree S. ][The BJP's B.S. Yeddyurappa took oath as the Chief Minister of Karnataka on Thursday. This follows a rare all-night hearing by the Supreme Court, when it refused to stay or postpone the swearing-in. A late-night petition filed by the Congress-JD(S) challenged Governor Vajubhai Vala's decision to invite the BJP to form a government.
 \xa0, Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala inviting the BJP to form the government in the State has led to a situation wherein MLAs will be auctioned under the \u201cIndian Political League\u201d the way cricketers are auctioned in the Indian Premier League, former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha has said.
 Mr. Sinha staged a protest outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan on May 17 against the Governor\u2019s decision, and alleged that the unconstitutional move amounted to murder of democracy.
 The former Union Minister was also not impressed with the Congress and the JD(S) approaching the Supreme Court against Mr. Vala\u2019s decision to invite the BJP to form government and noted it was the weakness of the country\u2019s political system that it failed in delivering justice in such cases.
 Earlier in the day, Mr. Sinha has tweeted that the developments in Karnataka were rehearsal of what would happen in Delhi after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 \u201cThe BJP is eight MLAs short of majority. Now from where will it get the requisite numbers (to prove majority)? The numbers will be managed after some MLAs will defect from other parties,\u201d Sinha said as he sat on a dharna on behalf of the Rashtriya Manch, \u201can apolitical forum\u201d that Mr. Sinha formed on January 30 to highlight the alleged "anti-people" policies of the Centre. , \u201cThe Governor has done exactly opposite of what is expected from him under the Constitution. Like there is Indian Premier League in cricket, the Governor\u2019s decision has led to Indian Political League in which MLAs will be auctioned...it is murder of democracy,\u201d Mr. Sinha added.
 Hitting out at Mr. Vala, who had been a BJP leader, Mr. Sinha said democracy would not work if Governors start acting as soldiers of parties. , On May 16 too, the former Union minister warned that the BJP would brazenly try to subvert democracy if it failed to get majority in the general elections and added he was glad to have left the party. \u201cI am glad I have left the party which is so brazenly trying to subvert democracy in Karnataka. It will do the same if it fails to get majority in the Lok Sabha election next year. Please note my warning,\u201d he tweeted.
 Mr. Sinha quit the BJP on April 21.
 Hours after Mr. Yeddyurappa assumed office as Chief Minister, several IAS and IPS officers have been transferred in a top level reshuffle.
 The government appointed M. Lakshminarayana, Additional Chief Secretary, Public Works Department, as the Additional Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister.
 It also notified that his position will be equivalent to the Additional Chief Secretary in Home department.
 Senior IPS officer Amar Kumar Pandey, serving as Additional Director General of Police, Railways, has been made ADGP, Intelligence, according to a government notification.
 Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Karnataka State Reserve Police Sandeep Patil will be the DIG, Intelligence.
 Bidar Superintendent of Police D. Devaraja has been transferred to Bengaluru Central division as the Deputy Commissioner of Police.
 Superintendent of Police in Anti-Corruption Bureau S. Girish has been transferred as DCP of Bengaluru North East Division.
 Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu faults the Governor's invitation. He feels that the post poll Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) combine, which has the numbers should have been allowed to form a government. He was speaking at a public meeting at Kandukur town in Prakasam district.
 Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram says the fate of Mr. Yeddyurappa is sealed in his letters to the as it makes no mention of a number bigger than the 104 MLAs of the BJP.
 His comment comes after the Supreme Court said government formation in the State would be subject to the final outcome of the case before it.
 \u201cMr. Yedyurappa\u2019s letter to the Governor will seal his fate. There is no mention of a number bigger than 104. The Governor\u2019s invitation does not mention any number at all!,\u201d Mr. Chidambaram tweets.
 \xa0\u201cI salute the Supreme Court. If I were Mr. Yeddyurappa, I will not take oath until the hearing at 10.30 a.m. on Friday, 18th May,\u201d he says.
 And now, as a fallout of the Karnataka developments, the Goa unit of the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar decide to stake claims to form governments as they had emerged as the single largest parties in the elections.
 In Goa, the Congress emerged as the single largest party in the Assembly polls held in 2017. , Congress Legislature Party chief Chandrakant Kavlekar says the party will stake its claim on Friday by submitting to Governor Mridula Sinha a formal letter containing signatures of all the 16 party MLAs.
 \n, RJD leader Tejaswi Yadav says the party MLAs will meet Governor Satya Pal Malik at 1 p.m. on Friday to stake its claim to form a goverment in Bihar. \u201cWe are not only the single largest party but single largest block of pre-poll alliance in Bihar. Then why should we not be called to form a government?\u201d he says. , \n\n, The RJD will hold a one-day dharna across the State in protest against the Karnataka Governor 's\xa0decision to invite the BJP to form a government\xa0in the State, Mr. Yadav says at a press conference.
 \n, Press Brief https://t.co/yKx9fReqmT, The Congress calls Mr. Yeddyurappa a one-day Chief Minister and dares the BJP to prove its on May 18 itself. Mr. Yeddyurappa does not have the numbers to prove his majority, it claims.
 \n\n, \u201cKarnataka Governor \u2018encountered\u2019 (killed) Constitution twice \u2014 by inviting BJP to form government and allowing Mr. Yeddyurappa to take oath,\u201d the party says. \u201cWe dare PM Modi, Amit Shah to prove BJP\u2019s majority in Karnataka Assembly tomorrow.\u201d, \n, The Congress and the JD(S) on Thursday moved the Supreme Court against the decision of the Karnataka Governor to nominate an Anglo-Indian member to the Assembly, saying it should not be done till the floor test in the House.
 The petition was filed in the afternoon and is likely to be heard on May 18, along with the main petition of the combine on which the apex court, in the early hours of Thursday, refused to stay the swearing-in of Mr. Yeddyurappa as Chief Minister.
 \n, The Supreme Court gives the Attorney General 48 hours to produce the two letters written by Mr. Yeddyurappa to the Governor staking his claim to form a government.
 The top law officer has to procure the documents from the Governor and produce them before the court on May 18 at 10.30 a.m.
 The letters, dated May 15 and May 16, are the major focus of the Governor\u2019s invitation on May 16 evening to Mr. Yeddyurappa to form a government the next morning itself.
 A three-judge Bench, led by Justice A.K. Sikri, wants to vet the contents of the letters - basically to check whether the Governor\u2019s decision was an informed one.
 In other words, the court wants to check whether Mr. Yedyurappa gave sufficient material to the Governor for the latter to have reasonably feel that the BJP leader is the best option and not the post poll Congress-JD(S) combine.
 \n, The Congress seeks the recall of Mr. Vala, referring to a 2011 tweet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the recall of then Karnataka Governor H. R. Bhardwaj and said, \u201cWe agree\u201c.
 \u201cGovernor of Karnataka is bent upon destroying India\u2019s federal structure , urged PM to ask the President to recall him,\u201d Mr. Modi, who was then the Gujarat Chief Minister, tweeted on May 19, 2011.
 Mr. Modi and the BJP sought the recall of Mr. Bhardwaj, alleging that he was \u201charassing\u201d the BJP-led State government and \u201cacting in a partisan manner\u201d.
 \n, MLA-elect from Molakalmuru B. Sriramulu says the BJP will prove majority with "numbers beyond anyone's imagination," reports our Bengaluru correspondent Bageshree. S. The legislator claims that many MLAs were in touch with them. There are "many disgruntled elements in JD(S) and Congress who will support Mr. Yeddyurappa, he adds.
 Mr. Sriramulu is a leader of the Valmiki Nayaka community, one of the largest tribal communities in the State, and a close associate of mining baron Janardhan Reddy.
 Congress president Rahul Gandhi says in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, that an atmosphere of fear is prevailing in the country. "Constitution under severe attack in the country. The BJP and the RSS are capturing every democratic institution in the country," PTI quotes him as saying.
 \n\n\nRead more\n\n\n\xa0, The Hindu's correspondent Muralidhara Khajane reports that after the swearing-in ceremony, Mr. Yeddyurappa says he will not wait for the 15 days time given by the Governor to prove his majority in the Assembly. \u201cI will seek vote of confidence at the earliest,\u201d he states.
 Mr. Yeddyurappa promises to waive farm loans as promised. He says he has asked the Chief Secretary to study all the details on the issue. The decision on loan waiver will be announced by Friday, he adds.
 ''The Congress-JDS combine is trying to grab power through immoral post-poll alliance, PTI quotes him as saying. "I am sure of winning vote of confidence. My government will complete 5 years," he says. He seeks the support of all legislators "to vote according to their conscience and uphold people\u2019s mandate".
 PTI reports that senior lawyer Ram Jethmalani has moved the Supreme Court in his personal capacity against the Karnataka Governor decision. The Governor's order is a \u201cgross abuse\u201d of constitutional power, he tells the apex court.
 A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra has asked Mr. Jethmalani to mention his plea on Saturday before the Bench concerned.
 \n, Muralidhara Khajane reports that former Prime Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Deve Gowda has joined the Congress protest in front of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru.
 Mr. Gowda first visits the JD(S) MLAs at the hotel where they are put up and then reaches the Vidhana Soudha.
 Congress leader Siddaramaiah says the protest will continue till they get justice.
 JD(S) leader Kumaraswamy says "the missing MLAs will be with us soon.", \n, On Twitter, Mr. Gandhi describes the entire course of events as the "defeat of democracy.", \n, The BJP\u2019s irrational insistence that it will form a Govt. in Karnataka, even though it clearly doesn\u2019t have the numbers, is to make a mockery of our Constitution. This morning, while the BJP celebrates its hollow victory, India will mourn the defeat of democracy.
 BJP president Amit Shah, who did not attend the swearing-in ceremony, responds to Mr. Gandhi's tweet, saying: "The \u2018Murder of Democracy\u2019 happens the minute a desperate Congress made an \u2018opportunist\u2019 offer to the JD(S).", \n, President of the Congress obviously doesn\u2019t remember the glorious history of his party.The legacy of Mr. Rahul Gandhi\u2019s Party is the horrific Emergency, blatant misuse of Article 356, subverting the courts, media and civil society.
 Who has the people\u2019s mandate in Karnataka?The BJP, which has won 104 seats. OrCongress which dropped to 78 seats, whose own CM and Ministers lost by big margins. JD(S) who won only 37 seats and lost their deposits on several others. People are wise to realise.
 The \u2018Murder of Democracy\u2019 happens the minute a desperate Congress made an \u2018opportunist\u2019 offer to the JD(S), not for Karnataka\u2019s welfare but for their petty political gains. Shameful!, \xa0, Mr. Kumaraswamy says, "The BJP is pressuring the Congress and the JD(S) MLAs. Anand Singh was taken to Delhi in a chartered flight. He says he is being threatened with ED cases.Our prime task is to safeguard our MLAs. Everyone in the country should join in this protest, including Chief Ministers like Chandrababu Naidu and Mamata Banerjee.", \n, Even as BJP party members celebrate outside the Raj Bhavan, senior leaders of the Congress, including Mr. Siddaramaiah and Ghulam Nabi Azad, gather at the Gandhi statue outside the Vidhan Soudha to protest the swearing-in of Mr. Yeddyurappa as Chief Minister.
 \xa0, \n\n, \n, Mr. Yeddyurappa takes oath as the Chief Minister. The 75-year-old leader takes the oath in the name of \u201cGod and farmers\u201d, wearing a green shawl, which has come to be known as a symbol of empathising with farmers.
 The Governor administers the oath to him at a ceremony held in the Glass House of the Raj Bhavan. , Mr. Yeddyurappa becomes Chief Minister of Karnataka for the third time.
 \n\n, \n, \n, #Karnataka: BS Yeddyurappa arrives at Raj Bhavan, to take oath as Karnataka Chief Minister shortly pic.twitter.com/IQLSPrGz2u, The stage is set for Mr. Yeddyurappa to take oath at 9.00 a.m.
 \n\n, Overnight hearing in Supreme Court, The Supreme Court agreed to hear a petition filed by the Congress-JD(S) challenging the Governor\u2019s decision to invite the BJP to form a government. The petition sought a stay on the oath-taking ceremony, as communicated by the Governor to Mr. Yeddyurappa. The Supreme Court later refused to stay Mr. Yeddyurappa's swearing-in.
 \n, \nKarnataka developments Live | Supreme Court refuses to stay Yeddyurappa's swearing-in, but keeps it subject to case outcome\n, Karnataka returned a hung Assembly on May 15 with the BJP winning in 104 seats, the Congress bagging 78 and the JD(S) 37, from the 222 constituencies that went to the polls. In a dramatic turn of events, the Congress offered support to the JD(S), which was duly accepted by Mr. Kumaraswamy.
 \n, \nKarnataka Assembly elections 2018 results live | Legislative parties of BJP, Congress to meet tomorrow\n][Please enter a valid email address.
 \nPrintable version | May 27, 2019 1:17:09 PM | https://www.thehindu.com/elections/karnataka-2018/live-updates-yeddyurappa-takes-over-congress-calls-him-one-day-cm-karnataka-political-developments/article23909578.ece\n, \n\xa9 THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD.\n]