

Top Developments




The BJP, which won only 40 seats in 2013, has emerged as the single largest party by establishing a lead in 104 seats. 

The ruling Congress, which had won 122 seats in 2013, is set to win 78 seats. 

The JD(S) has finished third in the race with a tally of 37. Its ally BSP has won from Kollegal. 

No party has managed to reach the halfway mark of 113 in the 224-seated Assembly. Of the 224 seats, elections have been postponed in R.R. Nagar and countermanded in Jayanagar.


Chief Minister Siddaramaiah was defeated by JD(S)' G.T. Deve Gowda by a whopping margin of 36,042 votes. He will, however, represent Badami in the Vidhana Soudha. 

In a sudden twist of events, the Congress announced its unconditional support to the JD(S). Mr. Siddaramaiah, who was vocal against JD(S) and its chief H.D. Deve Gowda during election campaigns, announced the party's decision to the media. When asked who will be the chief ministerial candidate, Mr. Siddaramaiah left it to the choice of JD(S). 

The BJP state chief B.S. Yeddyurappa, who has retained Shikaripura for the eighth time, has dubbed the Congress's support to the JD(S) as the party's attempt "to come back to power through the back door."


Chief Minister Siddaramaiah tendered his resignation to Governor V.R. Vala. Congress state chief G. Parameshwara, who accompanied Mr. Siddaramaiah, was not allowed to meet the Governor since he didn't have a prior appointment. 

Mr. Yeddyurappa, along with senior BJP leaders including Union Minister Ananth Kumar, met the Governor and staked a claim to form the government as the single largest party. Mr. Yeddyurappa said he has sought time to prove his majority on the floor of the House. 

JD(S) state chief H.D. Kumaraswamy also met with the Governor to stake a claim to form the government with the Congress's support. 

The ball is in the Governor's court now. It remains to be seen whether he will invite the BJP as the single largest party to form a minority government or invite the Congress-JD(S) combine with 115 seats to form the government. In either case, the government should prove its majority on the floor of the House to ensure five-year rule. 


