
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday expressed solidarity with Kerala and said that people from all walks of life across the country have come in support of those whose lives were devastated in the massive floods.“In today’s pressing, hard times, the entire nation is with Kerala. Our sympathies are with those families who lost their loved ones. Loss of lives cannot be compensated, but I assure the grief-stricken families that in this moment of suffering and misery, 125 crore Indians stand by them,” Mr. Modi said in his monthly “Mann Ki Baat” programme.“I earnestly pray for those injured in this natural disaster to get well soon. I firmly believe that the sheer grit and courage of the people of the State will see Kerala rise again,” he added.






An aerial view of Kochi city on August 20, 2018.  
| Photo Credit: Getty Images 





 The Prime Minister said that while the monsoon, on one hand, brings a new ray of hope to the toiling farmers and provides much needed succour to the scorched trees and shrubs and to parched water bodies, on the other hand excessive rainfall causes devastating floods.“Disasters, unfortunately leave behind a trail of destruction. But one gets to witness facets of humanity, humaneness during disasters,” Mr. Modi said.


Also Read





When Mahatma Gandhi mobilised ₹6,000 for flood relief in Kerala




 “From Kutch to Kamrup, from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, everyone is endeavouring to contribute in some way or the other so that wherever a disaster strikes, be it Kerala or any other part of India, human life returns to normalcy. Irrespective of age group or area of work, people are contributing,” he said.Mr. Modi commended the armed forces involved in the rescue and relief operations in the State for “leaving no stone unturned as saviours of those trapped in the floods”.“I would like to specially mention the arduous endeavours of the National Disaster Response Force daredevils. At this moment of hardship and agony, their service stands out as a shining example,” he said.(IANS)PTI addsA large number of “daughters” from India winning medals in the Asian Games, underway in Indonesia, is a positive sign, Mr. Modi said in his speech..He said podium finish in those sports in which the country has not performed well in the past is an evidence of the sky-high spirit of the players.He said the attention of crores of Indians is focused on the Asian Games and every morning people look at newspapers, TV and social media to check if Indian players have won medals.“I wish to congratulate all players who have won medals for the country. I extend my best wishes to those players who are yet to compete.“Indian players are performing exceedingly well in shooting and wrestling but our players are winning medals in those competitions too in which our performance has not been so good earlier,” the PM said.He said medals in sports such as Wushu and rowing are not just medals but an evidence of the sky-high spirits of the Indian players.“Among those winning medals for our country are a large number of our daughters which is a very positive sign; so much so, that youngsters of only 15-16 years of age... This too is a very positive indication that most of the medal-winners hail from small towns and villages,” he said.Wishing people ahead of National Sports Day on August 29, Mr. Modi requested the public to make it a point to take up sports and take care of their fitness.“Because only a healthy India will build a developed and prosperous India. When India will be fit, only then India’s future will be bright,” he said. 
