 [][][\nA man rescues a drowning man from a flooded area in the outskirts of Kochi on August 16, 2018. \xa0 | Photo Credit: \nREUTERS\n ][Kerala continues to battle with a resurgent monsoon on Thursday, with cities and villages submerged by floodwaters. The State, which is facing the worst floods in history, saw as many as 67 deaths due to rain-related incidents, 24 on August 15 alone. Additionally, as many as 20 people are feared dead in different parts of the State on Thursday.
 Flight operations have been suspended till August 18 at Kochi airport and many trains in the Thiruvananthapuram-Nagercoil route have been cancelled due to flooding and landslips. Kochi metro services have been suspended until further notice. Officials said a red alert has been sounded off till Sunday, with heavy rains predicted in 12 districts.
 From Kasaragod in the north to Thiruvananthapuram in the south, all rivers are in spate and shutters of 35 dams, including Mullaperiyar, have been opened.
 \n\n, \xa0, Mr. Modi is scheduled to touch down in Thiruvananthapuram late on August 17 to review the flood situation in Kerala.
 Top police officials told The Hindu that the Prime Minister would stay overnight in the Raj Bhavan and set out early on August 18 to flood-devastated regions on a military helicopter.
 Mr. Modi was likely to fly down to Thiruvananthapuram after attending the state funeral of Vajpayee in New Delhi.
 The State police have upped security because of the PM\u2019s visit. The Forward Base Supply Unit of the Southern Air Command would host the PM\u2019s special aircraft.
 Officials said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and senior State bureaucrats would accompany the Prime Minister on his aerial survey of the inundated regions. The PM was likely to return to New Delhi after a spending a day in Kerala on August 18.
 \xa0, \n, The Kochi international airport will be closed for operations upto 0830 UTC of 26th August 2018.
 \xb7 All the flights to Thiruvananthapuram and Calicut have operated till now except one Indigo flight from Doha to Calicut, which diverted to Bengaluru.
 \xb7 Lots of passenger queries are being received in the Control Room regarding their journey from Cochin to various places. Such passengers are being advised to travel to Thiruvananthapuram or Calicut for their onward journey.
 \xb7 Go Air has cancelled its 06 flights to/from Cochin upto 18 Aug 2018 and not rescheduled these flights. COO of Go Air has confirmed that their customers have been notified via phone calls, SMS and/or email by the Call Centre and full refund process has been initiated depending on mode of payment. Go Air is also giving option to its customers who wish to change their travel to future flights.
 \xb7 Rescheduled flights of Air Arabia (from Sharjah), Emirates (from Dubai), Fly Dubai (from Dubai), Oman Air (from Muscat), Qatar Airways (from Doha), Saudi Arabian Airlines (from Jeddah) and Srilankan Airlines (from Colombo) to Thiruvananthapuram have been approved by DGCA.
 \n\n, \xa0, \xa0, High swell waves and heavy wind are likely to batter the Kerala coast till Friday 11.30 p.m.
 Weathermen at the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Hyderabad, Telangana, have predicted waves, which can climb to the height of 4 metres, till Friday. Heavy wind, which may gather a speed up to 65 km/hr are also likely to blow over the seas, which can turn the sea rough.
 \n, \xa0, IAF has established a HADR cell at Thiruvananthapuram and is working in constant liaison with state government to plan and execute rescue operations. In addition a Task Force Commander has been nominated to coordinate employment of fixed wing &amp; helicopter Assets of IAF. Requirements of boats and additional personnel induction for supporting HADR is being undertaken by IAF. Liaison officers have been positioned along with District Collectors at Pathanamthitta,Alappuzha,Ernakulam,Thrissur&amp;Malappuram to ensure proper utilisation Air Effort, the IAF announced on Twitter.\xa0, \xa0, Kochi International Airport is now closed till the 26th of August.\xa0 It was previously announced that the airport will be shut till Saturday as rain water entered the airport area.
 Meanwhile, the Indian Navy said that a total of 132 people were rescued by airlift from Thrissur, Aluva and Perumbavoor. This number also includes 46 from Pathanamthitta. Naval helicopters Sea King, ALH and Chetak from INS Garuda have been pressed for rescue oeprations.
 \xa0 , Bodies of seven victims buried under the fury of a landslide at Odakkayam, Vettilappara, in Oorngattiri village of Eranad taluk in Kerala\u2019s Malappuram district were retrieved on Thursday afternoon.
 Two families of Nelliyaya tribal colony were wiped away when their houses were destroyed by the landslide precipitated by incessant rains in the morning.
 The desceased were identified as Sundaran (45), Sarojini (45), Unnikrishnan(28), Chinchu alias Ambili(20), Chirutha (70), Shibila (6), and Matha.
 P.K. Basheer, MLA of Eranad, led the relief operations and shifted the remaining Adivasis to safer camps. There were about 400 Adivasis in the colony.
 All the train services on Thiruvananthapuram-Kottayam-Ernakulam and Ernakulam-Shoranur-Palakkad sections will be suspended with immediate effect till 16:00 hrs of August 17, 2018, Southern Railway has announced.
 \xa0, Kochi metro has announced resumption of services by 4pm this evening. The trains will focus on the rescue operations and so it will be a free service today, said a KMRL spokesperson. The frequency of the metro service will be less and the trains will be running in a slower speed of 25km/h.\xa0, However, all train services between Calicut - Shoranur- Palakkad have been suspended. A special train will be operated between Kuttippuram (Malappuram) and Mangaluru to help stranded passengers at the railway station in this section.
 Train services through Thiruvanananthapuram-Alappuzha-Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram-Nagercoil-Tirunelveli will continue to be operated under suitable speed restrictions as required.
 Vehicular traffic along NH 66 has been severely affected, thus making Metro the only public transport to operate between Aluva and Kochi city.
 Kochi Metro officials have asked rescue personnel to ferry stranded people to nearest metro station, to\xa0 enable them to reach out to more people in distress, Kottiyur in the Iritty taluk was partially isolated as massive landslides and flooding in the area damaging properties and crops. The Kottiyur village that had been battered by the flooding and landslides last week witnessed a large scale of landslides at Ambayathode on Thursday morning in continuation of minor landslips last night. The road connectivity of the village was affected as the overflowing river flooded the interior roads in the area. A bridge across the river at Pambrathan was badly damaged by the flooded river. Officials said that Army and Fire and Rescue personnel are in the area trying to salvage the bridge.\xa0, \xa0, Responding to concerns raised by Kerala Chief Minister Pinnarayi Vijayan on the storage in Mullaiperiyar dam, the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday wrote to him saying the dam \u201cis safe\u201d in all respects \u2014 hydrologically, seismically and structurally as per the Supreme Court order in May 2014.
 \u201cDuring the past, the dam was inspected by many experts on several occasions and they had also found that the dam is safe in all aspects,\u201d Mr. Palaniswami said in the letter, a copy of which was released to the media in Chennai.
 \n\n\nRead more\n\n\n\n, The Supreme Court termed as \u201cgrave\u201d the flood situation in Kerala and said that the sub committee u/s 9 of Disaster Management Act of 2005 will sit with National Crisis Management Committee tomorrow (August 17) to bring down the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam.
 The court further said that Tamil Nadu and Kerala should co-operate with National Crisis Management Committee to give displaced people adequate relief immediately and the disaster management sub-committee may suggest, before any release of water in downstream areas from the dam, what measures can be taken to handle the disaster.
 It also asked the crisis management panel to consider reducing water level up to 139 ft.
 \xa0, The National Crisis Management Committee met today to review the flood situation in the State.
 Meanwhile, the KSEB has warned again spreading of fake alerts that power would be switched off all over the State. Board officials have dismissed it as fake news. The board has no such plans and the transformers that have been switched off will be switched on once water recedes, the Board has clarified.
 \xa0, With the torrential downpour not relenting, a major landslip was reported at third hairpin bend in the Pollachi-Valparai ghat road on Thursday morning at around 5 a.m. The landslip occurred for a length of about a km and was cleared by the authorities within three hours, traffic was restored at around 8 a.m. In spite of this, motorists find it difficult to use the road, as minor landslips and boulders from the hills had rolled onto the road at many places.
 \n, All colleges affiliated to Calicut University have been closed in the wake of the rain and will reopen after the Onam vacation on August 29. All the exams scheduled to be held till August 21 have been deferred.
 The elections to various college students unions have been postponed to September 3.
 The Chief Justice of India and Justice Indu Malhotra agrees to hear an application "right now" seeking Centre\u2019s intervention to mediate between Kerala and TN on issue of rising water in Mullaperiyar. The Supreme Court termed the flood situation in Kerala as \u201cgrave\u201d and asked the States and Centre to not treat the issue as \u201cadversarial\u201d.
 It may be noted that the Mullaperiyar dam crossed the full reservoir level of 142 ft on Wednesday morning.
 The meteorological department has forecast strong winds mainly from a westerly direction with speeds occasionally reaching 35-45 kmph gusting to 60 kmph likely along and off Karnataka coast, North Kerala coast and over Lakshadweep area.
 Strong winds from westerly direction with speeds occasionally reaching 35-45 kmph gusting to 55 kmph is also likely along and off south Kerala coast.
 \n, Weather seems to have improved a bit in areas in and around the Ernakulam city with a break in rain.
 The past three hours has seen a respite in the rain, but the roads remain blocked in parts of the city after stormwater drains were cut open for draining the flood water.
 The Navy has commenced airlift operations in Thrissur, Aluva, and Muvattupuzha areas to rescue stranded people. A total of 36 persons have been rescued so far and have been sheltered at the naval base.
 \n\n, Earlier today, five people were killed in a landslip at Kuranchery in Thrissur district. Areas around the Thrissur town, including Punkunnam have been inundated as rain continues.
 Central government has constituted a coordination committee headed by the Central Water Commission Chairman to coordinate the discharge of floodwaters from inter-State projects involving Kerala and Tamil Nadu, including Mullaperiyar and Aliyar, The Chairman of the CWC will monitor the situation at Mullaperiyar dam in view of rising water level and continued heavy inflow.
 Army special forces and marine commandos are expected to join rescue efforts in Kerala along with 40 additional NDRF teams. 30 helicopters of the Air Force and Navy are also expected to be pressed into service by evening, with four more to kept on standby at Sulur airbase. Two Coast Guard ships are en route to Kochi and the Army is expected to deploy 12 columns in the State.
 \n\n, Armed forces will also supply dried food in packets to flood victims in Kerala while the Railway will provide drinking water packets. Government has convened a meeting of mobile service providers and oil companies to ensure uninterrupted services. Flood situation is very grave, reiterates the Chief Minister.
 As Periyar and Chalakudy rivers are expected to rise up by at least 1 m more, government has requested people to be ready for evacuation.
 As many as 25 houses Kunderippoyil near Shivapuram in the Iritty taluk in Kannur were flooded following incessant rains on Thursday. Residents of those houses were shifted to houses of relatives and neighbours.
 At present 1100 people are staying in 13 camps opened in the district for people hit by flooding and landslips. Eight of the relief camps are in the Iritty taluk which bore the brunt of the monsoon calamity over the past week. Taliparamba taluk has two relief camps while Thalassery has three.
 Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that he has requested the Prime Minister to "massively increase deployment of the Army &amp; Navy" in Kerala.
 "Kerala is in great pain. I spoke to PM and requested him to massively increase deployment of the Army &amp; Navy," Mr. Gandhi wrote on Twitter. "I also said that it is critical that he gives the state special financial assistance as this is a tragedy without parallel in Kerala\u2019s history," he added.
 \n\n, At least eight people are feared dead and 15 others, including a three-month-old infant, suspected to be trapped inside the debris of three affected houses as a massive landslip wreaked havoc in the catchment area of irrigation dam Pothundy at Aluvassery near Cherumkad early on Thursday morning.
 The road traffic between Palakkad and Thrissur came to a complete halt by Thursday noon when landslips occurred on top of the Kuthiran hills. Though a truck was trapped in rock and earth which blocked the national highway, authorities said the driver and cleaner had a providential escape.
 After shutters of Malampuzha Dam raised up to 105 cm by noon on Thursday, water level in Kalpathy river increased significantly, inundating low-lying areas of Palakkad town like Olavakode, Chathapuram, Kalpathy and Puthur.
 \n, Around 30 people, who were rescued from the flood-ravaged areas of Pathanamthitta, have been brought to a relief camp at the Govt. Higher Secondary School for Boys, Chalai in Thiruvananthapuram.
 Among them, the first batch of seven people, including children, had been flown down early today. They were entrusted with their relatives in the city.
 The second group of around 20 people were rescued from a seminary in Thottaman, near Ranni. They include theology students from Orissa, Karnataka and Maharashtra.
 Officials said that efforts were on to bring more from the affected areas to Thiruvanthapuram.
 The Central government is launching a massive rescue and relief operation in Kerala, according to an official from the Ministry of Home Affairs.
 The Cabinet Secretary has chaired a high-level meeting on Prime Minister\u2019s instructions. The Army, Navy, IAF, Coast Guard and NDRF have been asked to mobilize additional manpower, boats and helicopters to scale up the rescue and relief operations. Food packets and drinking water are also being rushed.
 The Chairman of the Central Water Commission will monitor the situation at Mullaperiyar dam in view of rising water level and continued heavy inflow.
 The Indian Army, State police and local rescue groups, including fisherfolks from Kollam, are currently involved in intense rescue operations in Pathanamthitta, Ranni and Chenganoor localities devastated by flood waters. More men, including special forces with diving and rescue equipment and helicopters, are expected to arrive soon to deploy in impacted areas across the States.
 Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, Manoj Abraham told\xa0The Hindu\xa0that emergency responders have so far rescued 220 persons since Wednesday.
 \n, A control room has been set up at Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DACA) headquarters in New Delhi to address issues due to suspension of flight operations to and from Cochin airport from August 15, according to an official statement by the DACA.
 In addition to this, scheduled flights of the domestic airlines to and from Trivandrum and Calicut airport from August 16 have been monitored through Integrated Operational Control Centre (IOCC) of the airlines.
 The control room received the following queries from the public:, The control room has spoken to Cochin airport for latest update on Cochin weather. It has been informed that water level inside the airport continue to rise and heavy rain is predicted till Saturday i.e. August 18, 2018.
 \n, Four more lives have been feared lost in a massive landslide at Odakkayam, Vettilapara, in Urangattiri village of Eranad taluk on Thursday morning.
 Nisha, 30, wife of Rajesh, was killed when their house caved in at Kulappad near Edavsnna on Thursday morning. The body of a man named Sundaram has also been recovered. Rising floodwaters have marooned the area even as rescue workers are striving to help the victims.
 Most towns in Malappuram district have been cut off with floodwaters submerging vast stretches. Hundreds of houses along the banks of the Kadalundipuzha have been flooded.
 A large number of people have been evacuated to safety. Highways at Malappuram, Kondotty, Perinthamanna, Manjeri, Nilambur and Tirurangadi areas have been submerged, disrupting transport system. Power supply has been disrupted across the district. KSEB officials said power lines could not be charged because some transformers were submerged. Vehicular traffic along the Nadugani ghat roads has been restricted. Heavy vehicles have been banned from using the ghat road in view of its vulnerability.
 Search is on for the body of Abdul Hakim, 22, who went missing in a swollen canal at Kizhisseri on Wednesday evening. Revenue and police authorities have joined hands with the local people in the search.
 Though the situation in Thiruvananthapuram city has improved with the sun coming out for a while, the rains in the rural areas and in the catchment area of the Peppara dam has led to the opening of the third shutter of the dam.
 The district administration has issued a warning for those staying on either side of the Karamana river, as a surge in water level is expected due to the opening of the shutters.
 The dam currently holds water up to 109.01 metres, against a maximum capacity of 110.5 metres. Two shutters of the dam were earlier raised. With the water level going up by 0.02 metres in an hour on Thursday morning, it was decided to open the third one too.
 The district administration has opened 25 relief camps in Kollam following torrential rains and multiple landslips in the ghat section. As many as 1546 persons from 436 families are currently in various shelters including 10 in Pathanapuram. Though there has been no causality so far, many parts in the district remain submerged following the incessant downpour since Tuesday night. Roads were flooded disrupting traffic and KSEB had cut power supply for more than twenty four hours to avoid the risk of electrocution. There will be no train services in the Kollam-Shencottah route for two days. The public has been asked to stay alert in view of heavy storms forecast by the Met department in seven districts including Kollam.
 \n, Home Minister Rajnath Singh said that he is in constant touch with the Kerala CM and is providing all possible help.
 "Had a telephonic conversation with Kerala Chief Minister Shri Pinarayi Vijayan regrading the prevailing flood situation in the state," he wrote on Twitter. "The Centre is rushing additional NDRF teams to Kerala. We are providing all possible assistance. I am in constant touch with Kerala CM," he added.
 Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman too said that there will be no delay in providing assistance.
 "Hon CM of Kerala spoke requesting for more boats, life jackets etc. Have instructed Def. Secretary to respond immediately," she wrote on Twitter. "Awaiting the list from Chief Secretary, Kerala. There shall be no delay from our side. Additional IAF_MCC helicopters being deployed," she added. She further said that every help sought is being extended and that Indian Air Force has been directed to airlift people stranded on rooftops.
 Civil Aviation Minister Suresh Prabhu promised the full support of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the domestic airlines to Kerala in airlifting food items and other relief material.
 "The Ministry of Civil Aviation and the domestic airlines will be extending full support to the State Government of Kerala in airlifting food items and other relief material free of cost on their scheduled services, subject only to operational constraints, if any," he wrote on Twitter.
 He added that a control room has been set up at the DGCA Headquarters to address issues due to suspension of flight operations to/from the Kochi airport. "We are constantly monitoring the situation and taking all necessary actions," he said.
 The impact of the heavy rain and the resultant flooding was mostly felt in the eastern parts of the district. Flood waters marooned many houses and commercial establiments in Aluva, Paravur and Perumbavoor.
 Mobility in the district has been hit with most roads being inundated. A large number of interior roads were also flooded. Roads that take one to the neighbouring districts have also been flooded making the vehicular movement along the routes a risky affair.
 \n, In wake of the situation in the State, Public Service Commission has put off all departmental tests, interviews and certificate verification scheduled for the next two days.
 The Kerala State Electricity Board has switched off about 4,000 transformers and 7 sub-stations and three generating stations across the State as a precautionary measure in the flood-hit areas and its precincts.
 Board sources told The Hindu here that the transformers and sub-stations have been switched off since power meters in most of the houses in the affected areas were remaining submerged. If the situation worsens, more transformers may be turned off in due course, sources said.
 Functioning of Adyanpara, Ranni, Perunad and Mattupetty generating stations have been affected. The seven sub-stations are Pariyaram, Annamanada, Kalpetta, Sree Krishnapuram, Kurumassery, Koovapady and Kaloor in Ernakulam. This would impede the pumping of drinking water too.
 The board\u2019s call centre is receiving about 20,000 calls from the affected areas. On switching off a transformer, power supply in the unaffected areas is also disrupted and that leads to a flurry of calls. The stations and transformers would be charged only once the water level recedes, sources said.
 KSEB has provided a new number 9496061061 to send alerts on outages and accidents.
 Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan got in touch with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Rajnath Singh for the second time in two days seeking urgent deployment of more personnel of the armed forces, helicopters and sufficient equipment to help the State in its rescue operations.
 \n\n, A press note issued by the Chief Minister's Office said the Prime Minister had assured Mr. Vijayan that immediate steps would be taken to help the State. The Home Minister said he would immediately consult the Secretary to the Prime Minister, the Cabinet secretary and Home Secretary and initiate steps quickly to support the State's rescue and relief operations.
 The CMO said on Twitter that floating devices, lifeboats and life jackets will be airdropped to stranded groups of 50 or more people and that air lifting has started in Chalakudy and Bhoothathankettu areas.
 \n, , Spoke to Kerala CM Shri Pinarayi Vijayan again this morning. We discussed the flood situation in the state. Have asked Defence Ministry to further step up the rescue and relief operations across the state. Praying for the safety and well-being of the people of Kerala. @CMOKerala, A woman was killed when her house collapsed in a mudslide at Kolappad near Edavanna in Malappuram district on Thursday morning. The total number of deaths in the district in the last two days has risen to 14.
 Nine persons were killed at Peringavu near Vazhakkad in a landslip on Wednesday afternoon. A six-year-old child and his parents were buried in sleep when their house caved in following a landslide at Kaithakkunda near Pulikkal on Wednesday morning.
 Meanwhile, three are feared dead in a landslip at Aluvassery in the close vicinity of Ponthundy Dam in Palakkad. Four people have already been rescued.
 The flood situation turned grim in Alappuzha district on Thursday morning. Several places in Chengannur and Kuttanad taluks have been isolated and an unknown number of people remain stranded in their homes awaiting rescue.
 Water level has risen in the region after the shutters of the Kakki, Anathodu and Kochu Pampa reservoirs, part of the Sabarigiri hydroelectric project in Pathanamthitta district, were opened.
 \n, More than 1.5 lakh people have been shifted to 1200 relief camps across Kerala.\xa0A red alert was issued for residents along the banks of the Chittur river after Tamil Nadu prepared to release 11000 cusecs of water from the inter-State Aliyar to Palakkad.\xa0\xa0The Attapady tribal belt and Nelliyampathy hill station were cut off following a series of landslips on Thursday morning.
 The Mannarkad region in Palakkad registered heavy rains and road traffic to Attapady was disrupted by a landslip in the ghat section.\xa0Two major landslips occurred at Karadiyodu and a tribal family of three was reported missing. The settlement was isolated.\xa0The Kunthipuzha bridge was submerged for the first time since its construction.
 Union Minister of State for Tourism Alphons Kannanthanam met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Defence Minister Nirmala Seetharaman and Finance Minster Peeyush Goyal on Wednesday night to apprise them of the flood situation in Kerala.
 Mr. Modi and Mr. Singh later spoke to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the telephone and pledged all necessary assistance to the State Government. Additional relief teams were being rushed to places requested by government, they said.\xa0, Mr. Alphons spoke to the District Collector, Pathanamthitta and asked him to make sure that all families stuck in their houses in Ranni, Kozhencherry, Aranmula and other places were rescued immediately. He also spoke to Chief Secretary Tom Jose and Additional Chief Secretary P.H. Kurian.
 An official pressnote issued said Mr.Alphons would be reaching Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday evening to coordinate rescue efforts. He will be available at\xa0 Secretariat and Disaster Management Rescue office for any assistance, it added.
 A massive rescue operation has been mounted by the Army, Navy and the State administration to save people who have been remaining marooned in their homes following incessant rains and flooding in places such as Aranmula, Ranni, Kozhencherry, Maramon, Cherukolpuzha and Thiruvalla.
 Social media sites were clogged with distress calls since Wednesday noon. Disaster management personnel, fire tenders, revenue and police officials and local people were at work late into the night and early this morning to save as many people as possible without loss of time. Several people were air lifted and taken to the State capital at night.
 \n, With the water level in Aluva raising, the regional coordination facility of the district administration has been shifted to the Ernakulam Guest House. A few families from Vennala region shifted to a relief camp at the Government School, Vennala.
 Kochi metro services have been suspended until further notice as the water level rises in Muttom yard area. The service will be resumed once the water comes down and the systems are back in good condition. Surrounding of numerous stations, especially Companypady, on NH 66 are inundated.
 \n\n, Train services in Thiruvanthapuram Central-Nagercoil and Ernakulam-Shornur corridors remain suspended. Trains between Thiruvananthapuram Central-Ernakulam via Kottayam and Alappuzha are running now. Railways to carry site inspection at 10 a.m. today in Eraniel where a landslip took place on Wednesday to decide on restoring traffic from Thiruvananthapuram Central to Nagercoil junction.
 All train services are suspended between Thrissur and Ernakulam due to chances of flash flood in the Chalakkudi river as reported by district administration. Wadakkancheri to Vallathol Nagar tracks are suspended due to landslip.
 Due to landslips in Kuliturai \u2013 Eraniel section in Trivandrum Division and the Sengottai \u2013 Punalur section in Madurai Division, and the rise in water level between Angamali and Aluva the following trains have been cancelled/diverted/short terminated as of August 16.
 Full list here.
 Following the Malankkara dam discharge, water level in the Muvattupuzha in Kochi has gone up.
 Choondi water treatment plant has stopped production as the transformer has been switched off. Water supply to Tripunithura, Udayamperoor, Chottanikkara and other nearby areas has been affected. Ernakulam Milma dairy also gets water from the Choondi plant.
 Heavy rains continue unabated in Mannarkkad region of Palakkad.
 Two major landslips occured at Karadiyodu early in the morning. A three-member tribal family of Karadiyodu is missing as the local tribal settlement remains isolated. For the first time in history, the Kunthipuzha bridge has been submerged in water. Fifty odd houses on the banks of Kunthipuzha have been inundated. Road traffic to Attappady remains paralysed because of major landslip in Mannarkkad ghat section. Nellipuzha river is also overflowing in Mannarkkad, triggering fear among the residents.\xa0 Rescue and rehabilitation works are on.
 A resurgent monsoon brought Kerala to its knees on Wednesday, with the State tottering under the worst floods in its history.
 Submerged by floodwaters, cities and villages lay crippled as the circle of destruction widened.
 As many as 24 were killed in rain-related incidents during the day and several missing, as the withering broadside unleashed by the monsoon rocked the State from one end to the other.
 \n, As many as 24 persons lost their lives in various rain-related incidents in Kerala on Wednesday, taking the toll in the latest monsoon spell to 64 since August 8.
 Twelve people were buried alive in two separate landslips that followed incessant rains in Malappuram on Wednesday.
 While nine persons were buried under a huge mass of soil at Peringavu near Vazhayur in the afternoon, three members of a family died in sleep when their house caved in at Kaithakunda near Pulikkal in the early hours.
 \n, Chief Ministers Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) accepts voluntary contributions from Individuals, Organizations, Trusts, Companies and Institutions etc. All contributions towards CMDRF are exempt from Income Tax under section 80(G).
 Donations now accepted through UPI mobile app like BHIM, paytm, Tez, Phonepe also.(VPA : keralacmdrf@sbi) / Scan the QR Code to donate, For Bank Counter Payment, Beneficiary Name : Principal Secretary (Fin), Treasurer CMDRF, Bank Name : State Bank of India (SBI), Account Number : 67319948232, Branch : City Branch, Thiruvananthapuram, IFSC : SBIN0070028, For offline Contribution, Cheque/Demand Draft can be drawn in the favour of Principal Secretary (Finance), Treasurer CMDRF, payable at Thiruvananthapuram. The same may be posted/mailed to the following address:, Principal Secretary (Finance), Treasurer CMDRF, Secretariat, Thiruvananthapuram \u2013 695 001, Kerala, INDIA, For effective collaboration and communications between authorities, volunteers and public, the following website has been created http://keralarescue.in/, (Information provided by the Chief Minister's Office, Kerala), Ernakulam: 0484-2423513, 7902200300, 7902200400, Idukki: 0486-2233111, 9061566111, 9383463036, Thrissur: 0487-2362424, 9447074424, (As provided by CMO Kerala)][Please enter a valid email address.
 \nPrintable version | May 27, 2019 1:19:02 PM | https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/kerala-rain-floods-heavy-rain-red-alert-live-updates/article24700897.ece\n, \n\xa9 THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD.\n]