World Bank offers Rs 3,668 crore to Kerala's flood recovery efforts
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The World Bank (WB) is looking to extend support of up to $500 million (Rs 3,668 crore approximately) to the state government's comprehensive flood recovery efforts, a statement from the institution said. The support will be subject to Centre's formal request, which will have to be ratified by the WB's board of governors, the statement said. As an immediate step, the bank will reallocate up to $55 million(Rs 403 crore approximately) from within its various projects in the country to support the state's reconstruction. Under the proposed recovery and resilience framework, WB will help the state government finance and build resilient institutions, systems, and infrastructure to help achieve the state government's vision to build back better. A joint team of WB and Asian Development Bank (ADB) had conducted a joint rapid damage and needs assessment (JRDNA). The assessment has estimated the recovery needs at Rs 25,000 crore for the priority sectors alone. The sectors that suffered the worst damage and need the largest recovery budgets are transport, rural infrastructure, livelihoods (including tourism), housing and urban infrastructure. The bank submitted its report before the chief minister and other ministers here on Tuesday. The first phase of proposed recovery and resilience framework will attempt to address early recovery needs and setting the stage for a resilient recovery by helping the state raise funds from domestic and international sources. The second phase of the framework aims to improve the overall resilience of the state to future shocks over the medium to long-term, primarily through policy and institution strengthening.  "The World Bank stands committed to support chief minister Vijayan's vision of converting this tragedy - one of the biggest that the state has seen into an opportunity to build a more resilient Kerala for its people," WB country director Junaid Ahmad said. 
