Eulogised in death, Jayalalithaa leaves a checkered legacy
At Julius Caesar’s funeral in the Shakespearean play, Mark Antony says: “The evil that men do lives after them/ The good is oft interred with their bones.” That is one response to death. But the adage we often fall back on, particularly in the case of public figures, is more in tune with the Latin phrase, De mortuis nihil nisi bonum (Of the dead say nothing but good).  And so it has been with the death of J Jayalalithaa, four-time chief minister of Tamil Nadu, permanent general secretary of her party and former actor whose most enduring role was outside the silver screen, as the ubiquitous Amma to her electorate.  But the legacy she leaves behind, after a lifetime in the public eye, is chequered, eulogies notwithstanding.  She agreed with a journalist’s description in a 1999 interview that her life had been “one big battle, one big struggle”. The only exception were her schooldays, first in Bengaluru and then in Chennai, where her mother Vedavalli moved to for a career in cinema. “She was an extremely clever student.  Also Read: As Sasikala consolidates support, Jaya's niece tries fishing expedition  She would finish a one-hour paper in half an hour, and all the answers would still be right,” recalls Sister Isabel, a former teacher at Jayalalithaa’s alma mater Sacred Heart in Chennai. She was forced by her mother to abandon academics for acting, to prop up the family’s dwindling finances.  As a heroine, she soon won wide acclaim, but it was the relationship she forged with screen legend MG Ramachandran, three decades older than her, that went on to redefine her life.  MGR broke away from his political associate M Karunanidhi and his party, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), in 1972 and formed his own party, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). Jayalalithaa joined the party a decade later, and was appointed propaganda secretary, where she again proved her mettle, drawing huge crowds to her speeches.  But when MGR died in 1987, without appointing an heir, the real battle began.  The Politics of Gender It was a battle that created many scars but left her victorious. It also moulded the image of Jayalalithaa as a strong leader who showed that the glass ceiling could be smashed single-handedly.  Her struggles were exacerbated by her gender, especially in the early days of her political career. When she said, quoting Gandhi, “This body has been given to us only in order that we may serve all mankind with it”, it was reportedly contorted by DMK MLA Rahman Khan into “Jayalalithaa has said her body is at the service of the public”.  Her relationships with co-stars MGR and later Sobhan Babu became fodder for much innuendo, as did her later life with Sasikala. This in a state where her chief rival, Karunanidhi, had no qualms about having two wives. But Jayalalithaa did not bow down.  When she was assaulted by family members of MGR’s wife, Janaki, at his funeral, people felt sorry for her. But what left a lifelong scar was a vicious attack in the assembly when, during an acrimonious discussion, a DMK member pulled at her sari “as if he was trying to strip her”.  Distraught, she left the House, vowing not to return till it was safe for women. The incident would have been traumatising. But the astute politician that she was, she also used it to her advantage, exploiting it to the hilt “to play upon people’s sympathy”, writes journalist Vaasanthi in her book Amma.  Some of the policies she put in place to support women were pioneering, and laudable. In her first term, this included the “cradle baby scheme” to tackle female infanticide, where the state would adopt baby girls who were abandoned, and setting up all-women police stations.  She passed an order allowing students to adopt the first letters of their mother’s names as initials, to address problems faced by women who were separated, divorced or widowed.  Also read: O Paneerselvam's first challenge as chief minister: Tamil Nadu's water crisis  Also read: Wait and watch to view Chennai's new political equations  The free mixers and grinders were intended to liberate women from the drudgery of manual labour while the “thalikku thangam” scheme provided a gold coin for the wedding of daughters and cash assistance for their education.  At the same time, when it came to giving women more representation, her record seems mixed. In her first term, there were a record 27 women MLAs from the AIADMK and in the next, 23. But in 2011, her party fielded just 12 women candidates despite Jayalalithaa’s having expressed support for the Women’s Reservation Bill.  In 2016, this improved marginally with the AIADMK giving 31 tickets out of 227 to women, of whom 16 were successful.  Her support for women under attack was not a given. While she released a statement backing Mayawati when a BJP member made derogatory remarks about her, she failed to defend actor Khushboo when she faced widespread protests for her remarks that there was nothing wrong with premarital sex. Jayalalithaa, like many other politicians and actors, said there should be restraint in public speech.  V for Vendetta Though Jayalalithaa defied labels, an accusation that stuck to her during her years in office was that of pursuing a politics of revenge.  This was usually in the form of rolling back schemes announced by the DMK when they were in power, though the latter, too, was not innocent of this charge.  The examples are legion. But the most blatant instances include those in her third term, when she tried to stall two of Karunanidhi’s most ambitious projects, one being a new Rs 1,000 crore assembly building that she announced would become a hospital and medical college. The other, which the courts mercifully stayed, was her attempt to convert the newly constructed 375,000 square foot Anna Centenary Library into a paediatric hospital.  The media was another favourite target. She took the cue for treating the media with contempt from her mentor MGR, who allegedly slapped reporters who displeased him. He was, after all, the man who spearheaded the passage of the draconian Anti-Scurrility Act in 1982, which sought to make the “publication of grossly indecent or scurrilous matter” a non-bailable offence.  The act was repealed in the face of strong protests. For Jayalalithaa and her party members, the weapon of choice was defamation cases. In Amma, Vasaanthi says over a hundred defamation cases were filed against the press in her first term. In August this year, the Tamil Nadu government told the Supreme Court that it had filed 213 defamation cases between 2011 and 2016, 55 of these against the media.  Last year, folk singer Kovan, who was campaigning against the government’s liquor policy, was charged with sedition. If Jayalalithaa saw a threat, she was quick and merciless on the draw. A disturbing reminder is the attack on VS Chandralekha, an IAS officer before she joined Subramanian Swamy’s Janata Party. In Jayalalithaa’s first term, an assailant flung acid on Chandralekha’s face, disfiguring it forever.  It was hard to dismiss the fact that the attack came soon after the officer had raised the government’s hackles by protesting its divestment in chemicals firm SPIC at a throwaway price.     Jayalalithaa was also the main accused in a 1999 case of assault against her auditor, R Rajasekharan.  He alleged that she had summoned him to her residence where he was so severely assaulted by the former chief minister, her aide Sasikala and her nephews that he had to be hospitalised. When asked about the possible motive, Rajasekharan told journalists that it seemed as if they had decided that he was responsible for the tax cases against them. Jayalalithaa firmly denied the charges, saying it was a political conspiracy.  The Legacy of Caste One of the intriguing facets about Jayalalithaa was how she, as a Brahmin, could successfully inherit the mantle of the leader of a party that traced its heritage to the anti-Brahmin Dravidian movement.  “Jayalalithaa was accused of being a Brahmin conduit to nip the Dravidian upsurge but she proved her adversaries wrong and transformed herself into an icon of Dravidian identity through her so-called theatrics in the issues of Cauvery, Tamil Eelam (homeland), issues of Tamil fishermen and others,” says KS Chalam, former vicechancellor, Dravidian University.  She also took a leaf out of the book of MGR, himself an uppercaste Nair. “Jayalalitha’s political policies reflected MGR’s manner of assimilating a Dravidian identity through the projection of populist political policies,” says Senthilkumaran Uma, a National University of Singapore scholar in his dissertation “The Rise of the Jayalalithaa Phenomenon”.  Just as MGR sought to portray that the state’s mid-day meal scheme was out of his personal munificence rather than the state treasury, Jayalalithaa launched a slew of welfare schemes in the name of Amma, including the Amma Unavagams, the chain of canteens providing meals at highly subsidised rates.    You would see her face on the free table fans in homes in rural Tamil Nadu, on free water bottle dispensers (“Amma Kudineer), on baby-care kits, on laptops… Jayalalithaa in the role of benevolent benefactor was everywhere.  But while she doled out welfare schemes and dug in her heels in implementing 69% reservation for backward castes and communities in education and employment, Dalits did not get any support in their struggle against dominant castes.  “Dalits in Tamil Nadu are treated the same by both the DMK and the AIADMK. This is evident to anyone engaged in protesting atrocities committed against them,” says C Lakshmanan, associate professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies.  The murders of inter-caste couples that seem to continue with few convictions are a grim reminder. The victims are either Dalit men and their families, as in the 2016 case where V Sankar was hacked to death in public, or the women they fell in love with, belonging to dominant backward communities such as Thevar, Goundar or Vanniyar. (Incidentally, Chief Minister O Panneerselvam’s brother, O Raja, is accused of abetting the suicide of a Dalit priest in 2012.)    With Panneerselvam, a Thevar, taking over, how caste equations play out remains to be seen. A senior IAS officer says bureaucrats too are in a state of shock. “We really don’t know what will happen in the next year. Though there has been a smooth transition in terms of the election of a chief minister, there are so many variables… Don’t expect any major decision for the next 3-4 months,” says the officer, on condition of anonymity.  The lack of a charismatic, unifying leader who will bring in the votes will be a major challenge for the party. That was, after all, the role reserved for Jayalalithaa.  Criticism, including that of massive corruption, did not seem to make a difference to her electorate, who returned her to power in 2016 in a historic victory. And that, perhaps, is one label that might fit — Jayalalithaa, the astute politician.      