
Condolences from various leaders poured in as soon as the news of Jayalalithaa's demise spread.Expressing his deep sorrow at the demise of Ms. Jayalalithaa, Kerala Governor P. Sathasivam said she was the greatest woman political leader in contemporary India.He said, “In her we saw the perfect blending of the strong will of an able administrator and the compassion of a philanthropist. In her sad demise, we have lost a unique mother’s touch that had brightened the lives of millions of people during the last three decades“.In his condolence message, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan described Ms. Jayalalithaa as an extraordinary politician with a rare political acumen and administrative skills, which made her a distinct leader in Indian politics.She had a special liking for Kerala and always strived to uphold and maintain relations, Mr. Vijayan said. “We do not have any other Chief Ministers in our country who have influenced people like this. Her passing away is not only a major loss to Tamil Nadu, but for the entire country’Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also condoled her death.To prevent any untoward incidents, the Kerala police have strengthened security in the districts bordering Tamil Nadu, with additional forces being deployed in the border areas of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki and Palakkad districts.Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce Minister


1. Sad to hear that Hon. CM of TN Selvi.Jayalalitha is no more. Her life's journey is a story of grit & perseverance. Understood the mind ..— Nirmala Sitharaman (@nsitharaman) December 5, 2016
2....of the poor & the women. Stayed connected to her people. Remember fondly the affection she showed each time we met. Condolences.— Nirmala Sitharaman (@nsitharaman) December 5, 2016
On my way to Chennai. Shall pay respects to the departed leader Selvi Jayalalitha. Sad she is no more. #RIPAmma— Nirmala Sitharaman (@nsitharaman) December 6, 2016



 Former Prime Minister Manmohan SinghIn a condolence message to the people of Tamil Nadu, Dr. Manmohan Singh said "I join millions of admirers of Jayalalithaji in mourning her sad and untimely demise. She was a charismatic leader who will be remembered forever as the beloved Amma by the people of Tamil Nadu. She was an outstanding leader who was passionately devoted to the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu."Jayalalithaa a symbol of women empowerment: Kiran BediPuducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi  said Ms. Jayalalithaa was a rare political personality who charted a distinct path of governance through her strong and able leadership. Expressing her condolence over the demise of Ms. Jayalalithaa, Ms. Bedi in her letter to Tamil Nadu Government described the late Chief Minister as a “multi faceted personality“. Ms. Bedi said “the departed leader had always carved a niche for herself in all walks of life, be it as a student excelling in academics, be it as an artist, as a versatile actor and culminating in politics as a leader of the masses and elite”, a release said. Ms. Jayalalithaa had been a symbol of women empowerment and always had her heart for the cause of women. People of Puducherry “shared the sorrow of the loss along with the people of Tamil Nadu”, she said.Kavitha Kalvakuntla, TRS MP


An Era comes to an end in TamilNadu politics. RIP Puratchi Thalaivi !!! pic.twitter.com/0TiFQOHKfQ— Kavitha Kalvakuntla (@RaoKavitha) December 6, 2016



 Former Union Minister P. Chidambaram


Jayalalithaa was most dominant political personality of Tamilnadu in last 25 years. Share grief of millions— P. Chidambaram (@PChidambaram_IN) December 6, 2016
 Jayalalithaa acquired large loyal following that equalled that of her mentor MGR— P. Chidambaram (@PChidambaram_IN) December 6, 2016
 She brought a hard uncompromising style to politics and governance that won praise and criticism— P. Chidambaram (@PChidambaram_IN) December 6, 2016
 Tamilnadu was regarded as among the better governed States— P. Chidambaram (@PChidambaram_IN) December 6, 2016
 AIADMK must carry on and provide a government for remaining over 4 years— P. Chidambaram (@PChidambaram_IN) December 6, 2016



 Finance Minister Arun Jaitley


Saddened by the untimely passing away of J Jayalalithaa ji, an exceptional leader & Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu.— Arun Jaitley (@arunjaitley) December 6, 2016

Saddened by the untimely passing away of J Jayalalithaa ji, an exceptional leader & Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu.— Arun Jaitley (@arunjaitley) December 6, 2016



 Prime Minister Narendra Modi


Jayalalithaa ji’s connect with citizens, concern for welfare of the poor, the women & marginalized will always be a source of inspiration.— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) December 5, 2016


President Pranab Mukherjee"Heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of Ms. Jayalalithaa, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu #PresidentMukherjee"


One of India’s most charismatic & popular leaders, Ms. Jayalalithaa was a visionary & able administrator #PresidentMukherjee— President of India (@RashtrapatiBhvn) December 5, 2016


Arvind Kejriwal


V sad to hear the demise of Amma. A very very popular leader. Aam admi's leader. May her soul rest in peace.— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) December 5, 2016

"A void has been created in the entire political scenario. I wish her soul rests in peace" - @ArvindKejriwal @the_hindu— Poorvaja (@_poorvaja) December 6, 2016



 Tamil Nadu Governor"Deeply shocked and sad. People's Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu," said CH Vidyasaagr Rao.MRF CMD MammenNoted industrialist and Chairman and Managing Director of MRF Tyres K M Mammen condoled the death of Jayalalithaa saying she has been a formidable Chief Minister and a role model to many leaders. “The State has lost a great leader, a visionary and a beloved friend. She will always be remembered for her unwavering commitment to the development of the State of Tamil Nadu and its people, especially the under-privileged”, he said in a statement. “On the many occasions, I had the privilege to meet her, concerns of the industry were sympathetically heard and initiatives taken to address them. Under her stewardship, Tamil Nadu remains one of the States were industry has flourished”, he said.Sonia Gandhi"We pay our respects to J. Jayalalithaa ji. May her soul Rest In Peace."


Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi condoles Selvi J.Jayalalithaa's death & pays homage. pic.twitter.com/SaQlk3gZAb— Randeep S Surjewala (@rssurjewala) December 5, 2016


Karunanidhi"I offer deep condolences on the passing away of Jayalalithaa. Wishes of lakhs of her followers will make her immortal," he said.Home Minister Rajnath Singh"Deeply saddened to learn of the demise of Tamil Nadu CM,Selvi Jayalalithaa. She was a powerful voice for the weaker sections of the society."


Selvi Jayalalithaa was one of the most iconic political figures of India who had an enormous impact on the people of Tamil Nadu.— Rajnath Singh (@rajnathsingh) December 5, 2016


RSS condoles deathThe RSS condoled the death of the late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, hailing her national spirit and ability to face challenges. “Though she ruled state politics, she had unflinching faith in national integrity. She also was a believer,” RSS State president ML Raja said in a statement. She “sparkled” as a star both in the fields of cinema and politics, he said. Ms. Jayalalithaa had faced many challenges in personal and professional lives “all by herself and overcame them,” he said, adding, her death was a great loss to the country.BJP chief Amit ShahBJP president Amit Shah tweeted "Saddened by the demise of Tamil Nadu CM J.Jayalalithaa ji. I extend my deepest condolences to her party and followers in this hour of grief."


Saddened by the demise of Tamil Nadu CM J.Jayalalithaa ji. I extend my deepest condolences to her party and followers in this hour of grief.— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) December 5, 2016



 Mamata Banerjee"Popular,strong,bold,efficient, people- friendly,charismatic leader, Amma. Always at the heart of people. Big loss. I am shocked, saddened ."


I humbly urge the people of Tamil Nadu and AIADMK to face this big loss with courage and greatness. May she Rest in Peace 2/2— Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) December 5, 2016


Our J&K Correspondent Peerzada Ashiq reports Mehbooba describes Jayalalithaa as 'leader of masses'Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday described Ms. Jayalalithaa "a leader of masses" and praised her women-specific initiatives.Expressing grief over the passing away of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, Ms. Mufti said, "Jayalalithaa would be remembered long for introducing many innovative schemes and programmes for public welfare. The late leader was one of the highly learned politicians of the country."In her condolence message to the newly-elected Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu O Panneerselvam, Ms. Mufti said, "Ms. Jayalalithaa was an example personified of women empowerment who brought a unique style to country’s politics."She also prayed for eternal peace to the departed soul of the late leader, according to her spokesman.M.K. Stalin"She was an iconic & courageous leader. This is an irreparable loss to the people of TamilNadu. #Ironlady #RIP"


Deeply saddened by the demise of our CM Selvi Jayalalithaa. My deepest condolences to the party cadres & well wishers in this hour of grief pic.twitter.com/oe26Itv1OF— M.K.Stalin (@mkstalin) December 5, 2016


Thol ThirumavalavanVCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan said Jayalalithaa’s demise was an irreparable loss to the state.Ramadoss condoles deathTNCC President Su Thirunavukkarasar, PMK founder S Ramadoss, CPI state Secretary R Mutharasan and scores of political leaders condoled Jayalalithaa’s deathVenkaiah Naidu“Felt very sad about the demise of Madam Selvi Jayalalitha CM of Tamil Nadu —— had hopes till last movement that she will survive —— doctors had made every possible attempt.”Anand Mahindra"Memories of interactions with Jayalalithaaji rushing back.Iron Lady,certainly,but with a wry sense of humour & the gift of eloquence."


Saddened by Jayalalithaaji's demise. Got to know her when she inaugurated Mahindra Ford's Chennai plant&then Mahindra World City (1/2)— anand mahindra (@anandmahindra) December 5, 2016


 Arvind Kejriwal"Very sad to hear the demise of Amma. A very very popular leader. Aam admi's leader. May her soul rest in peace."


V sad to hear the demise of Amma. A very very popular leader. Aam admi's leader. May her soul rest in peace.— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) December 5, 2016


Chandrababu NaiduIn deep anguish over the demise of Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalithaa, a long-time friend & a leader with indomitable spirit who is loved by all.


My deepest condolences to her well-wishers & supporters. She will remain in our memories as leader who truly cared for people. (2/2)— N Chandrababu Naidu (@ncbn) December 5, 2016


ShivrajSingh Chouhan"Deeply grieved to learn of the sad demise of Chief Minister Jayalalithaa . My heartfelt condolences to the people of Tamil Nadu."


Tamil Nadu Chief Minister #Jayalalithaa's passing away is a great loss to the state & it's people, we stand by them in this hour of grief.— ShivrajSingh Chouhan (@ChouhanShivraj) December 5, 2016


Actor RajinikanthThe brave leader’s loss is not just for Tamil Nadu, but for whole of India…My prayers for our respectful CM’s soul to rest in peace.


pic.twitter.com/beEKDlm5sQ— Rajinikanth (@superstarrajini) December 5, 2016



Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy“Jayalalithaa has done a lot of good work for the development of Tamil Nadu and for the welfare of the people. I mourn her death personally and also on behalf of the people of the union territory,” he said.Preetha Reddy of Apollo Hospitals''Devastating loss to the state and the nation. Jayalalithaa was an iconic leader. A humane visionary. A personal friend for years. Will miss her presence immensely.'' Sadananda Gowda 


Condolences on sad demise of Selvi Jayalalithaa. We are with the people of Tamilnadu in this hour of grief #RIPJayalalitha— Sadananda Gowda (@DVSBJP) December 5, 2016



 Left parties pay glowing tributes to Jayalalthaa''Condolences on sad demise of Selvi Jayalalithaa. We are with the people of Tamilnadu in this hour of grief.'' Left parties today paid glowing tributes to late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, who passed away last night following a cardiac arrest, saying her work has left a “deep imprint” on the politics of the southern state. “Under her stewardship several popular welfare schemes were launched to provide immediate relief to the common people, which left a deep imprint on the politics of Tamil Nadu,” CPI(M) Politburo said in a statement. Party general secretary Sitaram Yechury also condoled the the top AIADMK leader’s demise. “Deepest condolences on the passing away of a popular leader and Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, J Jayalalithaa,” he tweeted. The CPI described Jayalalithaa as a “hard working and determined” leader who fought her way to become the state’s Chief Minister and defended its interest. “She was frank and outspoken and never spared anybody who tried to belittle her with personalised attacks. She was a good friend of our party and party leaders ... she played an important role in national politics too,” the Left party said in a statement.Khushbu Sundar


Had met her at Poes garden after my daughter's birth..so much of care n warmth she exuded..she smiled from her heart..it will stay forever— khushbusundar (@khushsundar) December 5, 2016


 
