Paytm for Business app launched in Tamil Nadu
CHENNAI: Paytm on Monday launched Paytm for Business app for all merchants and business partners accepting Paytm at their offline stores in Tamil Nadu. 

Available in more than 10 regional languages, the app (available Play Store) allows Paytm’s three lakh strong merchant-base in Tamil Nadu to track payments instantly, navigate through past collections and track settlements made to their bank accounts. 

This will ensure business owners are instantly on-boarded and start accepting payments at zero additional fee. Merchants will now have instant access to their QR, print it and put it up in their shops. Customers can scan this QR to pay using their Paytm Wallets or their UPI linked bank accounts.

‘Paytm for Business is an app for all merchants to start accepting payments digitally and instantly view their transactions without the need to wait for a confirmation SMS or e-mail. Merchants can check the details of every transaction, download daily, weekly and monthly statements and gain access to information like estimated time of bank settlement, UTR numbers of daily bank settlement, among other things. 

It also allows merchants to share their QRs with customers when they are not at the shop. Merchants can also browse common concerns, raise new tickets, view their existing support ticket and get priority access to Paytm’s dedicated Merchant Helpdesk.

Kiran Vasireddy, COO, Paytm, said, “Paytm has enabled every Indian merchant to accept digital payments for the first time. Our Paytm for Business app is yet another step towards simplifying payments for the country’s vast and diverse business community. It will make managing business simpler for our partnered merchants and offer them the peace of mind that comes with having a one-stop destination for everything from day-wise settlement summary to priority assistance. We are confident this will add to the convenience of accepting Paytm at an offline store by increasing transparency and trust among our merchants in Tamil Nadu.” 


