2016 sees rise in violence in valley; infiltration attempts rise to 85 from 31 last year
NEW DELHI: A ‘border action team (BAT)’ that aims to behead Indian army soldiers is active near forward defence locations and parts of the KG sector in Poonch, according to an intelligence report compiled on the buildup of Pakistan-aided terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir. In 2013, an Indian soldier was beheaded by LeT militants near the Line of Control.  As per an assessment carried out by intelligence agencies, there is an increase in violent incidents in the valley compared with 2015 and 2014.  “An isolated input from Bandipore indicates that terrorists were planning to attack those individuals who had participated in flag-hoisting ceremonies in Baramulla. LeT and HM (Hizbul Mujahideen) terrorists were planning to carry out attacks in Baramullah district.  Kupwara and Baramulla have seen the maximum movement of terrorists,” reads the report. ET has seen a copy of the report.  Army camps at Bandipore, Pulwama, Baramulla and Anantnag are also under the radars of militants, according to a recent Multi-Agency Centre report.  Some of the terrorist launch pads in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir that were the target of last week’s surgical strikes find mention in the report. “Inputs revealed movement of terrorists in Kel, Lipa Valley Shardi (and) Dudhnial,” it says, while adding that there was information on their plans to infiltrate into India through Uri, Nowgam, Tangdhar and Machhal sectors.  The report talks about a terrorist commander, Haider Khan aka Abu Haider, who held a meeting of militants at Kotli in PoK “to develop a network system to spend more money and lure more people of bordering villages”.  He also decided to seek Pakistan army cover firing during infiltration.  A militant that Indian security forces arrested in July, Bahadur Ali, had named the commander of the terrorist launch pads in Mandakuli near Muzaffarabad as Abu Haider.  More than 85 militants have tried to infiltrate between April and September this year as compared to 31 in 2015, says the report.  The militants, in order “to paralyse the government functioning and malign the state authorities” engaged in “arson activities” outside the “court premises and office premises, ” it states. 