Surgical strikes after-effect: Pak intensifies snooping, Indian forces send reinforcements to Western front
Taking precautionary steps following India’s surgical strikes against Pakistani terrorist launch pads last week, Pakistan has reinforced its defences along the International Border (IB) and intensified its snooping operation on Indian armed forces.  This has happened while security forces are on the highest alert after the strikes and Monday’s Baramulla terrorist attack. The Border Security Force (BSF) also said tension is prevalent at the Western Border.  The BSF’s Director General, K K Sharma, on the sidelines of the 43rd DG level talks of the BSF and Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) said, “An Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) from the Pakistani side (across the IB) was seen flying on their side to see what we were doing.”  This Pakistani snooping operation happened in Jaisalmer four to five days ago. Sources added that there have been more Pakistani UAV sightings across the IB, including in Gujarat and Rajasthan, mostly since the Indian Army’s surgical strikes against terrorist launch-pads across the Line of Control.  “They are being more watchful than before. Pakistan has also reinforced its strength on most places on their side along the IB. There has recently been more activity of uniformed personnel, not terrorists, across the IB. Intelligence inputs suggest that besides the Pakistan Rangers, these personnel could be from the Pak Army, because the strength of the Rangers along the IB is generally low,” said sources.  The DG further added, “At the Western Border tension is there. At the Line of Control there is active shelling from across. There has been no ceasefire violation at the IB. All security forces are on high alert and have improved their defences,”  “We cannot stop fidayeens from launching attacks, but I can assure you that we will not allow them to be successful.”  The officer said reinforcements of the BSF have been positioned along the IB. Over the past three months, the BSF has placed five new battalions in Punjab and two more in Jammu, meaning about 8400 soldiers, as each battalion has around 1200 personnel.   In regard to the Baramulla attack, the DG said that the BSF constable, Nitin, who was killed, was on duty in a morcha. “Nitin felt some movement. He went outside to check and was fired upon. A grenade splinter hit him. There was loss of blood and he died.”  Sharma added that there are no witnesses to the attack as it was pitch dark when the incident took place.  He also refuted allegations that the incident resulted from a “friendly fire”. The number of terrorists who launched the assault, however, is still unclear.  Bodies have not been recovered after the gunfight ended yesterday. Pakistani boat found in Amritsar The DG BSF said that he was informed today morning about a Pakistani boat having being found in Amritsar.  “Under the current circumstances water flow (of the Ravi River which flows in and out of India and to Pakistan) is more from Pakistan. The boat’s anchor was also loose and that is how it must have flowed into India. No suspicious items were found in it. I see this as an accident, caused by the high water flow and air speed,” he said.