Former Supreme Court Judge Justice Markandey Katju has strongly criticised the Supreme Court verdict which allowed women of all age to enter Sabarimala temple.
He asked if the court could change the rituals in thousands of temples, mosques and gurdwaras. He responded through his Twitter account.
He also pointed out that the Sabarimala verdict led to petitions with regard to the worship centres of other religions too.

There are thousands of temples, mosques, and gurdwaras in India, many with their own rituals and practices. There are some temples which do not permit entry to women, and some to men. Should courts now start interfering in all these? #SabrimalaVerdict
                                                                                                                                                            									                                                                                            								                                                            	                                                                									                            	
— Markandey Katju (@mkatju) October 4, 2018
He said that the court has no right to intervene in the religious practices. Katju also said that there are only two ways before the new chief justice: one is to set up a bench to reconsider the verdict and other is to enforce the same in mosques too.

The new CJI Gogoi has two choices pic.twitter.com/u2pkIo8JQL
                                                                                                                                                            									                                                                                            								                                                            	                                                                									                            	
— Markandey Katju (@mkatju) October 4, 2018
The only way before the chief justice to keep the verdict valid is to allow equal entry for men and women in all places of worship, he added.

Justice Malhotra rightly said that the right to equality in Article 14 had to be harmonised with the right of people under Article 25 to follow their own religious practices, and the court was not entitled to see whether the practice was rational or not. #SabrimalaVerdict
                                                                                                                                                            									                                                                                            								                                                            	                                                                									                            	
— Markandey Katju (@mkatju) October 4, 2018