Thiruvananthapuram: The representatives of Sabarimala tantri family and Pandalam dynasty withdrew from attending a conciliation meeting called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday to discuss the Supreme Court verdict which threw open the temple to all women.
With this, the government and the Devsawom Board has decided to proceed with the execution of the Supreme Court order. The government is responsible to implement the present verdict until a review petition is filed.
Sabarimala priest Kantararu Mohanararu told media that they have decided to withdraw from the discussion after talking with the Pandalam palace. Also it was decided to stay away from the discussion because of the statement made by CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan who said holding discussions was not to make consensus but for implementing the verdict.
Following the verdict, Chief Minister had categorically said that no review petition would be filed and the state government will do all that is needed to implement it. The decision to boycott Monday's meeting was taken after detailed consultations with the powerful Nair Service Society (NSS), the socio cultural body of the Hindu Nair community.
Pathanamthitta district (where the temple is located) observed a shutdown on Sunday to protest the use of police force against the youth wing of the BJP while they staged a demonstration on Saturday.
Meanwhille, minister Kadakampally Surendran said that the protests are because of misunderstanding and they will settle down after two days. He added that the tantris withdrew from the meeting as they were convinced that the government cannot do anything more than the present actions.
The chief minister’s private secretary M.V. Jayarajan said they have to wait till a new verdict on review petition. He added that the government has to implement the present verdict until then.
Pandalam palace executive committee members said that all steps to approach the Supreme Court has been arranged. Affidavit and documents have been handed over to the lawyers. They also alleged that the discussion was held for namesake. The Pandalam palace strongly protested over the offensive comments made by minister G. Sudhakaran and demanded that the chief minister should take action against him.
The Sangh Parivar organisations will convene a meeting on Monday in Kochi to discuss about further protests in the Sabarimala issue. A UDF meeting will be held on Monday to discuss the crisis.



Women cops in Sabarimala
The decision regarding deployment of women police officers in Sabarimala will be taken at the next Board meeting. The police headquarters has asked to make a list of women officers who are ready for special duty in Pampa ahead of the monthly puja in Thulam. Thus a list of 40 names have been sent by the Pathanamthitta district police chief to the headquarters. Women officers should ensure the safety of women aged between 10 and 50 who enter the temple. A huge number of women devotees, including those from other states, are likely to visit the temple this year, as expected by the police. The police asked to prepare a list of women cops who are willing to take up duty in Sabarimala as there were news that many of them were unwilling.