At the beginning of the week, President Trump and his administration doubled down on its policy of separating migrant children from their parents, with the president, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, mounting an aggressive defense.  But facing outcry from both political parties, Mr. Trump signed an executive order on Wednesday that would end the separation of children and families, opting instead to detain them together indefinitely. A federal judge will consider the order, and could potentially refuse to grant the administration the necessary authority to detain families for more than 20 days.  Hours after signing the order, the president reiterated his hard-line stance on immigration: he vowed that the administration would be “just as tough” during a rally on Wednesday, and chose to lament deaths caused by people who “shouldn’t be here” during an event on Friday.  As of Friday, Mr. Trump faced confusion and tense arguments among senior government officials over how to enforce the executive order. The Pentagon, for its part, is preparing to shelter as many as 20,000 migrant children on four American military bases. In Congress, there was more disarray among Republicans over immigration legislation, as the House rejected a hard-line immigration bill on Thursday and twice delayed a vote on a compromise bill.  How Anti-Immigration Passion Was Inflamed From the Fringe Fact-Checking the Trump Administration’s Case for Child Separation at the Border Senator Jeff Merkley, a Quiet Stalwart of the Left, Has a Breakout Moment at the Border On Washington: G.O.P. Lawmakers Hope Trump’s Border Action Heads Off Political Threat Despite the president’s executive order, it is unclear how the more than 2,300 children already separated from their parents will be reunited with their loved ones. Many migrant mothers have no idea how to get their children back. (Here’s where they’re being held.) Government officials faced intense outcry over “tender age” shelters for children under 12. Many are toddlers and babies and require special care. Audio from a detention center released on Monday, in which children cry out for their parents in between sobs, also offered more insight into such shelters.  The business of housing, watching and transporting migrant children in shelters and detention centers along the border is a multibillion-dollar one. Melania Trump, the first lady, visited one on Thursday, but her choice of a jacket on the way there was what made headlines. Several governors from both parties announced they would withhold or recall National Guard troops from efforts at the border between the United States and Mexico, citing the child-separation policy. The president’s “zero tolerance” policy has also flooded criminal courthouses like Texas and California.  A Troubling Prognosis for Migrant Children in Detention: ‘The Earlier They’re Out, the Better’ Family Separation: It’s a Problem for U.S. Citizens, Too How Trump’s Policy Change Separated Migrant Children From Their Parents 18 Tweets on What It’s Like to Tour a Children’s Detention Center The Supreme Court issued a number of decisions this week, including ruling that the government generally needs a warrant to collect troves of location data about the customers of cellphone companies. The court also decided that internet retailers can be required to collect state sales taxes, even in states where they have no physical presence. (Read more about the court’s biggest decisions in 2018.) The United States became the first country to voluntarily withdraw from the United Nations Human Rights Council. Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the United Nations, rebuked human rights watchdogs and the council’s criticism of Israel’s treatment of Palestinians. Mr. Trump unveiled on Thursday a plan to overhaul the federal government, intended to reorganize social welfare programs in a way that would make them easier to cut, scale back or restructure. It is likely to face significant opposition in Congress from Democrats and some Republicans. Behind the plan to enforce tariffs on China is concern that Beijing is using industrial policy to dominate industries of the future. The tariffs on Chinese, European and other international goods are starting to affect industries through the American economy, even as the administration doled out its first set of exclusions to the metal tariffs. Mr. Trump will meet Queen Elizabeth II in Britain next month and is hoping to meet with Vladimir V. Putin, the president of Russia, in the next few weeks.  