What’s on Priyanka and Nick’s reception menu?
Looks like ‘love is in the air’ for the major celebrities! From Bollywood to Hollywood, this year has marked many major weddings. While we are still not over with Deepika-Ranveer’s cute wedding pictures, Priyanka Chopra has surged our excitement with her wedding! American singer, Nick Jonas, is all set to tie knots with our desi girl Priyanka Chopra on 2nd of December 2018. The wedding is going to take place in Jodhpur's Umaid Bhavan and reportedly, the rituals have already started!


As the couple has already landed in Jodhpur with their families, fans are excited to get all the details and pictures of their big fat Indian wedding! Previously, Deepika and Ranveer tried their best to keep their wedding a private affair yet some of their photos were leaked online but, Priyanka won’t let that happen! According to the reports, Nick and Priyanka’s wedding will have a tight security and no guests are allowed to get their smartphones inside the Bhavan. Along with that, the guests will have a special invitation card with barcodes printed on them so that no uninvited guest can get inside the wedding venue. Now, let’s talk about the food menu because no Indian wedding is complete without mouth-watering delicacies!



As the marriage ceremony is taking place at the land of palaces, Jodhpur, the rituals will be followed in a royal way. The guests will be savouring the best of Indian, Italian, Mexican, Continental and Chinese cuisines on silverware. According to the sources, Priyanka has included her favourite food, ‘butter chicken’, in the menu by herself as she is a Punjabi and this dish is a must-try recipe from the Punjabi cuisine.

Talking about the reception, Priyanka and Nick are reportedly hosting their wedding reception in Delhi on 4th of December 2018 in which they only have invited their close friends and family members. It is said that they will have another reception in Mumbai for her friends from Bollywood. Just like the wedding, the couple has decided a royal food menu for their reception as well. Reports claim that Priyanka has added all her favourite foods in the reception menu from chicken biryani to butter chicken to red velvet cake. Similarly, Nick has also contributed to the menu by putting in his favourite foods, which are sushi and steak. Apart from these dishes, the guests will also be relishing various types of Indian and international favourites.





Stay tuned for more updates on the royal wedding of Nick and Priyanka and don’t forget to share the article with your family and friends!

