Photos: Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas burn the dance floor at their Sangeet ceremony
Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas gave their guests a night to remember at their grand Sangeet ceremony that was nothing short of a spectacular event. The new Mrs Chopra Jonas took to her social media handle to share images from the first day of festivities, that saw the bridal couple and their families putting up special performances of song and dance and in turn making it “a huge celebration of love.”



Read Also:Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas Wedding: Ladkewale lip-synced to Bollywood songs at the sangeet ceremony
 While admitting that the Sangeet was something both Nick and she were looking forward to, the actress explained, “It all began as a fierce song and dance competition between the families but ended, as always, as a huge celebration of love. Nick and I were looking forward to the Sangeet (musical evening), another pre wedding ritual... and to what each side had put together.”


 Rest assured, when you have one of America’s biggest singing sensations as the groom, his brothers and former boy-band members as groomsmen, and a global-icon and actress as the bride with her equally talented family, it was a night to remember. 


Read Also:Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas Wedding: PeeCee's diamond mangalsutra is sure to grab your attention
The handful of photos see the bride and groom burning up the dance floor with their own performances. While Nick hit the stage looking dashing a blue kurta, Priyanka looked gorgeous in a shimmery golden saree. For the evening of song and dance, the groom brought his A-game along with his brothers, friends and family. The bride, on the other hand, gave her man a run for his money when she put up a performance with her mommy Madhu Chopra and followed it up with some more performances with her family and friends. 











“And what a performance it was. Each family telling our stories through song and dance, filled with lots of laughter and love. We were both filled with gratitude for the effort, the love and the laughter and will carry the memories of this special evening for the rest of our lives,” Priyanka said in her note. 






 The clicks also see Sophie Turner front and centre having a blast while grooving on-stage. 




The evening ended on a high with the winning team even taking home a large trophy for their superb performances.

 Priyanka signed off saying, “It is an amazing start to a lifetime of togetherness for our families and friends... #grateful.”


