Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas Wedding: ‘The Sky Is Pink’ director Sonali Bose shares a heartfelt post for the bride on the eve of her wedding day
Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas’ wedding has been the talk of the town with celebrations on in full swing at the Umaid Bhawan Palace in Jodhpur. We saw the bride and her groom touch down at the grand venue, along with their family and close friends, followed by their high-profile guests. While this wedding will hands down, be one for the biggest we have seen, much of the celebrations will happen behind closed doors with only a select few being witness to it all. 

Preferring to keep details about her special day under wraps, the Priyanka has kept fans and the media guessing the exact date she will officially become Mrs Priyanka Chopra Jonas. As confirmed by ‘The Sky Is Pink’ director Sonali Bose in her latest Instagram post, that day is December 1!

Taking to Instagram, the director shared a few behind-the-scenes photos of Priyanka on the sets of their film along with a heartfelt post wishing the bride-to-be on the eve of her wedding day. 

“...And so tonight on the eve of such a massive life-altering journey that you are about to embark on – I am feeling quite misty-eyed. You were courageous enough to shoot such wrenching things with me mere days before one of the happiest days of your life. I will be ever grateful for that. Happy happy wedding day sweetheart. And all the verrrrrry best for this new leg of life,” she wrote.

Read the full note below:




        View this post on Instagram           I form a deep umbilical cord between me and my actors for them to perform the difficult things I require them to - rendering them emotionally naked. Very quickly I formed an intense one with you my darling Pri. And so tonight on the eve of such a massive life altering journey that you are about to embark on - I am feeling quite misty eyed. You were courageous enough to shoot such wrenching things with me mere days before one of the happiest days of your life. I will be ever grateful for that. Happy happy happy wedding day sweetheart. And all the verrrrrrry best for this new leg of life. See you very soon back on set as Ms PCJ. Chummas. @priyankachopra #theskyispink #bridetobe. #directorlove. A post shared by  Shonali Bose (@shonalibose_) on Nov 30, 2018 at 5:12am PST 



Priyanka will reportedly wed Nick in a Christian wedding on December 1, followed by another ceremony the next day according to Hindu customs. For her white wedding, Priyanka will reportedly wear a Ralph Lauren gown and walk down the aisle with Nick’s dad, Paul Kevin officiating the ceremony. 

