Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas wedding: Is this the itinerary for the big celebrations set to unfold?
Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas’ big fat Indian wedding is just around the corner with festivities set to kick off in full swing today, now that the bridal couple and their families have touched down in Jodhpur. After the couple arrived at the Umaid Bhavan Palace early this afternoon, online posts have hinted that the guests have begun pouring in and have been warmly welcomed on the palace grounds. 



Read Also:Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas wedding: This is exactly where the pr-wedding ceremonies of the couple are taking place!

Preferring to keep the details of her big wedding under wraps, much like her engagement, PeeCee has left fans and the media playing the guessing game about the celebrations set to unfold in the days to come. However, a fan club, claiming to have details of the itinerary have shared the same online. According to the post, Nick and Priyanka will have their Mehendi today, followed by a dinner at the Vintage lawn. The couple will allegedly have their Sangeet on Friday that will see the bride and groom putting up dance performances. 




        View this post on Instagram            A post shared by priyankachopra__iranianfc (@priyankachopra__iranianfc) on Nov 29, 2018 at 3:27am PST 



The post further claims that PC and Nick will have a Christian wedding on December 1, followed the next day by a Hindu ceremony. 





Read Also:Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas' wedding: Get a glimpase of the Indo-western wedding guide

Fans can expect to see a few Hollywood stars also being a part of the wedding celebrations. It has also been reported that the palace grounds have been closed to visitors and locals for the big wedding. A helipad has also been constructed on the grounds as the bride is expected to make a grand entrance apart from also having a few guests flown to the venue. 

Nick and Priyanka will also reportedly have two wedding receptions, one in Delhi which will reportedly also have PM Modi in attendance, and another one in Mumbai.

Stay tuned for more updates.


