This is the designer Priyanka Chopra will wear at her wedding!!!
Priyanka Chopra’s wedding with Nick Jonas is just a day away. Tonight, as you read this, the bride will get mehndi applied in an elaborate ceremony at the tightly guarded Umaid Bhavan Palace, followed by a grand dinner for the guests. The heritage property will remain shut for other guests for a few days to come to ensure NickYanka get their share of privacy for their big day.
Tomorrow is the big sangeet night which will witness the bridal couple and their families performing on a host of chartbusters. And on December 1, the couple will exchange vows as per Christian traditions and a day later, the American singer will whisk the desi girl away in a horse-drawn carriage following a Hindu wedding ceremony replete with pheras and rituals like kanyadan and sindoor-daan.
While there has been plenty of speculation about what Priyanka will wear at her wedding ceremonies, Bombay Times has learnt that the actress is likely to wear a top Indian designer for her traditional Hindu wedding and a top-of-the-line foreign designer for the Christian ceremony. If sources are to be believed, Priyanka has opted for a gorgeous bridal lehenga designed by Sabyasachi for her Hindu ceremony and she will be seen in a custom-made Dior gown when she exchanges wedding vows with Nick. Apparently, the reason she flew to Paris in the midst of a film schedule recently was to check the fitting of her wedding gown and finalise her footwear for it. We’ve also learnt from sources that Priyanka’s much-in-love groom is also likely to wear the same designer’s outfit as her at their Hindu ceremony. Anita Dongre and Abu Jani Sandeep Khosla are the other designers Priyanka is likely to wear at some of her bridal functions.
The wedding is being covered by a team of seven photographers from Josevilla. They flew in from the USA to Jodhpur on Wednesday and have been doing their homework over where they’d shoot the couple post their marriage. The photographers are known for the fine artistry in their wedding pictures although they’re not known to be too frequent on the wedding scene.
Watch this space for more details…
