All you need to know about Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas wedding menu!
The winding romance of Bollywood’s Desi Girl -- Priyanka Chopra and American singing sensation Nick Jonas is all set to turn into an exuberant affair as they gear up for their nuptials on 2nd December 2018. Amidst all the glitz and glamour, their fans are going gaga over the preparations of this regal wedding. 

It has been an year of celeb weddings for the B-town, and Priyanka- Nick wedding happens to be one of the most awaited wedding as it will be interesting to see this wonderful East-meets-West couple tie a knot at the voguish aura of Taj Umaid Bhavan Palace, Jodhpur. 



Lately, we have seen how the much-in-love couple got engaged on the 36th Birthday of Priyanka Chopra, which was a very amazingly planned private affair followed by some Indian rituals. Apart from all the lovey-dovey pictures of the glittery affair, what grabbed our attention was that lavish engagement cake followed by an exotic spread of Indian and Continental delicacies. 



Well, as their wedding is around the corner and the preparations are in full swing, the only question that’s intriguing us is ‘’What Next’’, as we all know that the grandeur of this wedding will be a dreamy affair for their fans, but despite all that ecstacy of this Indian-American wedding, food will still be one of the most quintessential part of this wedding. 

According to the reports much like their engagement ceremony, there’s a possibility that the wedding menu will host a spread of favourite delicacies of Nick & Priyanka. As per several wedding planning experts, the menu will most likely include both Continental as well Authentic Indian delicacies. In fact, Nick Jonas tried Dal Makhni and Butter Chicken, and his love for these Indian delicacies give us a hint that their wedding menu will also have these delicacies for the lavish supper. 


Going by the International guest list of the duo, there’s also a possibility of exotic American as well as Fusion recipes, but certainly Indian food will be a part of this exquisite wedding. So,we just can’t wait for the big day to arrive and see our favourite couple tie a knot. 

