Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas Wedding: Post Chooda ceremony, guests gear up for the Baaraat
Priyanka Chopra and her husband, Nick Jonas are all set for another day of celebrations with a second wedding ceremony today, according to Hindu customs. The couple wed in an intimate Christian wedding on Saturday that saw them exchange vows in an emotional ceremony, surrounded by their families and closest friends as fireworks lit up the night sky. 



Read Also:Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas wedding: The bride gets emotional during her Jaimala ceremony
After donning a Ralph Lauren creation for her special day, Priyanka will reportedly don a Sabyasachi creation for the Indian wedding ceremony scheduled to take place later this evening. According to reports, the floral arrangements around the palace and the decor have been changed from all white to red flowers at the Baradari lawn, where the ceremony will take place under a 40-foot mandap.

The latest update from the closed-door event, states that Priyanka and the eligible bachelorettes sat down for a chooda ceremony this morning. Post the ceremony, the guests headed to their personal quarters to get ready to welcome the Baaraat. 



Read Also:The screaming auntie at Nick Jonas-Priyanka Chopra's Mehendi starts a meme fest on the Internet
Nick is expected to make a grand entry on a horse, accompanied with the Baraat. And according to reports, the groom is quite excited about the festivities for the evening. Photos doing the rounds online, see a horse and an elephant all adorned in colourful gear for the big day.





        View this post on Instagram           @nickjonas all set for his grand entrance like a true Prince! #nickjonas #priyankachopra #priyankakishaadi #bollywoodwedding #nickyanka #nickyankawedding #groom #indiangroom #horse #indianwedding #hinduwedding #groomentrance #baraat #ladkewale A post shared by  Priyanka & Nick's Wedding👸🏻🤴🏻 (@priyankaandnickwedding) on Dec 2, 2018 at 6:44am PST 



"One of the most special things that our relationship has given us is a merging of families who love and respect each other's faiths and cultures," Chopra and Nick posted on their Instagram account as they shared images from their Mehendi ceremony that officially commenced the wedding celebrations. 

Stay tuned for more updates from the "wedding of the year."

