
 The widespread devastation caused by the recent floods in Kerala found an echo in the Australian Parliament with Michelle Rowland, Member, House of Representatives raising the issue last Wednesday and offering her prayers and support for the victims. In a reference to the floods in the House, Ms.Rowland who represents the Australian Labor Party for the seat of Greenway described the magnitude of the disaster in Kerala and the impact on the human population. Terming the floods as catastrophic and the worst in this century, she said Labor Party had offered its support for the Australian government to provide any assistance required in the wake of the floods.“But we also understand that the Government of India is advanced in the deployment of its own resources to cover disaster relief and rehabilitation. At a non-government level, I pay tribute to the generosity of the Indian diaspora in Australia, who are assisting in supporting the relief effort. I know that a number of local events and support drives have been initiated. Individuals and groups from the Australian Indian community have already begun fundraising and supporting those efforts to assist displaced people in need,” she said. Pointing out that the rainfall in some places was well over double that of a typical monsoon season, she called for elevating discussion within the Asia-Pacific and the Indo-Pacific region on preparations for extreme climate events, including flood mitigation. “Australia can and should lead this conversation,” she noted. “The people of Kerala face a long road to rebuild their homes and lives. They are shattered. Floods have played havoc with their lives and there is a sense of gloom among them,” Ms.Rowland said adding: “I am privileged to represent a diverse, strong and growing community in Greenway which has ties to India, and specifically to Kerala, by birth or descent. My thoughts, prayers and a standing offer of support are with my many constituents who have family or loved ones affected by this terrible disaster.”
