Statue Of Unity: Here's What The International Media Has Been Saying About India's Colossal Tribute To Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel
The Statue of Unity, commemorating the Iron Man of India - Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 143rd birthday on Wednesday. The statue, which is 182m long, becomes the tallest statue in the world.

A lot has been spoken within India about the statue, with praise directed towards the workers who managed to complete the construction of the monument in just 33 months. But even the international media were full of compliments. Here's how they reported about the Statue of Unity:
BBC

Terming that the statue once completed will be twice as tall as the Statue of Liberty, BBC reported in its article 'Tallest statue in the world takes shape in India' that this gigantic and iconic monument may well become a significant tourist destination, bringing in more and more people in the state. Its article also mentioned that the Statue of Unity costs an approximate amount of $430 million, and that it will go past the Spring Temple Buddha in China to become the tallest statue in the world.
Washington Post

The famous international media stated that the Statue of Unity is 'So big, in fact, that it will give India bragging rights to the world’s tallest statue'. They also explained the reason behind why the statue was created in the first place.

    "India’s new Statue of Unity, which will be formally unveiled Wednesday, depicts Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, an independence-era leader credited with uniting the fledgling nation in the 1940s when he served as India’s first home minister," their message read on the article 'Four times as tall as the Statue of Liberty: India’s new monument to its ‘Iron Man’.

READ: Sardar Patel's 'Statue Of Unity' Is 54m Taller Than The Next Tallest - China's Spring Buddha Temple. Full Details Here
Daily Mail

Daily Mail put out comparison between Statue of Unity and other such monuments across the world, highlighting how big and huge Sardar Patel's statue is.

    "Surrounded by the waters of the Narmada river, the statue will stand at five times the height of Rio De Janeiro's famous statue of Christ The Redeemer and more than double the height of Russia's imposing The Motherland Calls statue in Volgograd. Millions of tonnes of cement and steel have been shuttled to the site and recycled iron was used for the statue's foundation," a paragraph from their article 'India prepares to unveil the tallest statue in the world - a £450million figure twice the size of the Statue of Liberty' read.

READ: Statue Of Unity Inauguration LIVE: All Eyes On India As The World's Tallest Statue, Honouring Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Is Dedicated By PM Narendra Modi
Guardian

Stating that India are soon to break the record for highest statue twice, Guardian mentioned that the world's largest statue will depict the importance of India's independence leader, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.
