Gorkhaland issue: If history is any guide, CM Mamata Banerjee’s aggression won’t stop fire
KOLKATA: It was only a few weeks after taking office as West Bengal’s chief minister in 2011 that Mamata Banerjee claimed she had settled the Gorkhaland issue. Six years later, the CM has ordered a crackdown on the Gorkha Janamukti Morcha agitation, shattering hopes of peace.  A police raid on Thursday on the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha president Bimal Gurung’s operational headquarters in Patlebas – which had been out of bounds for law enforcing agencies for all these years – clearly indicated the aggressive stance that the CM had taken in dealing with the hill situation and the GJM.  For past six years, Banerjee had given time and energy to ensure that the “Hills are smiling and Junglemahal is smiling.” While the Maoist problem is under control, the Gorkha stir seems to be reviving in the face of her aggression. The smiling hills are on the boil and the edifice of calm and the slogan of development – all seem to be crumbling fast.  Sources claim GJM president has gone underground while Roshan Giri, GJM general secretary, has called an indefinite strike in the hills. Almost simultaneously, Pedong police station in Kalimpong and the hill top tourist lodge of West Bengal in Kalimpong were set on fire. Few minutes later, a vehicle of a news channel was also set on fire. SS Ahluwalia, BJP MP from Darjeeling, held Banerjee ‘responsible’ for this situation.  “The seed of the problem has always been there. The tripartite agreement that was signed in 2011 in presence of then home minister P Chidambaram and CM Banerjee appears to be unsuccessful and faulty. The agreement was made with the clause that the morcha would not drop the demand of Gorkhaland. This is the reason for the problem that recurs in every 2-3 years. Moreover, there has to be dialogue between the ethnic groups and the government. The repressive action by police and forces need to stop immediately,” Ahluwalia told ET.  About the centre’s role, he added, “even if the centre wants to do something, the state has to be involved. But the state government is on a war. If it so impatient, then problems will not be resolved.”  Significantly, it just took three years for putting the region on an indefinite strike mode again and it resulted in an economic blockade in the area. Two years after the formation of GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration) , the GJM went on an indefinite strike in 2013 that continued for almost two months pushing its tourism and tea industry on the verge of collapse. While the agitation in 2013 was the result of the formation of Telengana, this time the flare up took place following a notification making Bengali language compulsory in all schools.  Even though, there had been protests over the notification, the situation turned violent after Banerjee held a cabinet meeting in Darjeeling last week. She took a step forward and announced that she would not tolerate ‘drastic’ politics and her government would conduct a ‘special audit’ in GTA. After her announcement, all hell broke loose in Darjeeling.  With the GTA agreement in 2011, Banerjee had made progress, at least on paper, as it could bring the Gorkhas to a common platform with the state and Centre for forming an semi-autonomous council. This, however, was second such semi-autonomous body, while the first was DGHC (Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council) that continued for 20 years till the chairman and the GNLF leader of the Gorkhaland movement, Subhas Ghising was ousted in 2007. In a way, this is the second time when a government arrangement with Gorkhas is on the verge of collapse. With the root cause living within, the six decades old demand for Gorkhaland keeps returning. Moreover, the first election for GTA, scheduled in July, appears uncertain. This is a moment of desperation for Bimal Gurung and Mamata Banerjee.  Increasingly cornered by Mamata’s aggressive inroads into the hills, Gurung too has gone back to the emotive Gorkhaland issue. However, this stir looks different from the earlier ones. The Gorkhas were never earlier seen pelting stones at security forces; neither had they faced retaliation from the government machinery.  “We had trusted Mamata, but she has cheated on us. She had sent so many policemen here and called army. But, she does know Gorkhas would lose restraint if there is any further police action. Under what authority, she ordered raid in the home of GTA chairman Bimal Gurung? How dare her police seal his residence,” thundered Asha Gurung, president of Mahila Morcha (GJM) and wife of Bimal Gurung.  “If CM wants to turn Darjeeling into a Kashmir, let it be so. We were trying hard to control the Yuva Morcha members so far. But, something happens to Bimal Gurung, there would be violence everywhere,” she added. According to veteran political analysts, an identity crisis of hill-tribes is the core reason behind the unrest. “The people here have always witnessed ad hoc arrangements.  This kind of a barter system will not work here for long. The politicians do not find much interest in Darjeeling since has a small number of voters. The governments, both the Centre and the state, should address the actual issue seriously,” said B K Pradhan, a senior advocate and the head of Darjeeling civil society. 