CPIM and Left parties urge governor Keshari Nath Tripapthi to solve Darjeeling impasse
KOLKATA: CPIM and Left parties on Thursday met West Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripapthi and urged him to impress the state government for taking appropriate measures to win the confidence of the people of Darjeeling instead of taking only repressive measures.  The Left Front Legislative Party (LFLP) leader and CPIM MLA Sujan Chakraborty has also written a letter to the chief minister Mamata Banerjee and urged her to convene an emergency session of the state Assembly to discuss current impasse in Darjeeling and incidents which created communal tension in some parts of the state to find out suitable solutions to such crisis on the basis of consensus among all political parties.  CPIM and Left parties met the governor at a time when the constitutional head of the state and the chief minister have been engaged in war of words over the Baduria incident in which three persons were reportedly killed in clashes and communal tension prevailed in the area.  Meanwhile, the Congress and BJP have decided to send their leaders at Baduria to gather first hand information from the locals over the recent incidents of violence in the area. The CPIM and Left parties are yet to decide whether they would send their leaders in the region.  In a letter to the governor, the Left parties have said that "it is painful to note that the state of West Bengal, which has a glorious history and tradition of amity and unity among its people, now facing serious problems to maintain it. The situation in Darjeeling is deteriorating everyday causing distress to the people of Darjeeling Hills and adjacent areas due to this untoward impasse. It is a matter of grave concern that the state government instead of taking appropriate measures to mitigate the cause of unrest and assuring the people their protection and restoration of normalcy is creating instigation. It is appropriate to declare blockade of supply of food grains and essential commodities to the affected areas of Darjeeling Hills, until and unless the agitation is withdrawn."  The Left parties have also come down heavily on the state government for it's move to cut the supply chain of food and essential commodities in Darjeeling in order to stop the Gorkhaland agitation. The Gorkha Janamukti Morcha (GJM) is holding an indefinite bandh in Darjeeling demanding a separate state for the Gorkhas.  The Left parties also told the governor that "it is deplorable that since few days back the state government has suspended the internet services in Darjeeling Hills, which is causing much distress to the students and job seekers. "Most unbecoming fact is that even some forces in plain areas of Siliguri and Dooars are organising hate campaign and rallies at the instance of the ruling Trinamool Congress and the state government against a particular nationality with a motive of fishing in troubled water," the Left parties told the governor.  At the same time, LFLP leader and CPIM MLA Sujan Chakraborty, in a letter to the chief minister has urged her to take stern and effective action to ensure peace and tranquility in the state. He also urged the chief to convene an all-party meeting to solve Darjeeling impasse and incidents of communal tension in some pockets of the state.