How the three-month lockdown threatens brand Darjeeling
KOLKATA: Darjeeling is facing potential economic bankruptcy because of the ‘Gorkhaland’ agitation, which began in the peak tourism season this year. Eighty-five days into the indefinite shutdown, the North Bengal hills may have lost up to Rs 1,200 crore in business. But that’s just the immediately tangible cost of the Gorkhaland movement. Brand Darjeeling is now under threat. The frequent disruptions, violence, evacuation of tourists, and complete lockdown of the district’s hill subdivisions have put a question mark on the region’s revenue-generating industries – tea, tourism, and boarding schools.  The tea industry alone is staring at a Rs 500-crore loss, with the premium second flush and subsequent monsoon and autumn flush output not being taken to public auctions. According to the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), 87 gardens spread over 17,600 hectares have geographical indication tag and produce the finest flavoured tea in the world. Darjeeling tea is exported to 40 countries.  On an average, these gardens produce 8.45 million kg a year. Before the agitation began, the plantations could produce about a third of their annual average output. The second flush, generally processed during the June to August monsoon months, earns about 40% of the industry’s annual revenue. With no tea production between November and March, the industry survives on the crop of eight months. With the lockdown beginning June 9, many gardens were shut.  According to the senior DTA officials, the production season will last barely a month and a half longer, but the garden authorities would need months to clear the overgrown bushes, weeds and trees. So, this year, the industry will continue to incur losses. This season, the total crop has been written off, with both the central and state governments losing export revenue. The tea gardens, considered to be the most labour-intensive industry in Darjeeling, employ 55,000 as permanent workers and around 35,000 as contractual staff. With the shutdown, around 3.5 lakh people including the tea workers and their families are out of jobs.  “The tea industry in Darjeeling is the mainstay of the economy here. Unfortunately, around 3.5 lakh people are bearing the hardship. To regain the health of the industry, it would require around three to four years because all the gardens would have to be flushed. In 170 years of the existence of Darjeeling tea, the industry never faced such a serious crisis,” said Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor to the DTA.  The tourism industry, including 300 hotels in Darjeeling, around 100- odd in Kalimpong and Kurseong and 250 homestays, is facing another Rs 300 crore in losses, with Durga Puja bookings cancelled. In the first week of August, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee told the state assembly that the government is suffering a financial loss of around Rs 550 crore, including its revenue from tea and tourism industries and the damage to property. Senior officials say that the loss has since increased substantially.  “We have lost the Durga Puja bookings. August to October is the peak season, and all the 300 hotels in Darjeeling remain fully occupied. But, it seems that businesses are ready for the loss since this agitation is for Gorkhaland,” said Sameer Agarwal of the Darjeeling Hoteliers’ Association.  Gautam Deb, the minister in charge of North Bengal, said: “It will take years to recover the losses, and even longer to re-build Brand Darjeeling.” The finest educational hub in entire eastern India is also losing its charm, and the 52 prestigious schools in the hills have the additional task of ensuring the safety of their pupils. Separately, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), which is at the vanguard of the movement, is itself witnessing factional feuds.  Most of the senior leaders, including Morcha chief Bimal Gurung, have gone into hiding. Another leader Benoy Tamang, Gurung’s former aide, led a delegation to Kolkata and met chief minister Banerjee. He tried to end the strike on his return to the hills, but failed and was expelled from the Morcha. “We do not want factional feuds, and we are trying to end the misunderstanding.  As far as the strike is concerned, people want to go through this. And economic losses would be recovered once we get statehood. Brand Darjeeling went for a toss during the 1980s agitation too, but it picked up again,” said Amar Rai, MLA of Darjeeling. On Thursday, the Union Home Ministry is learnt to have called the GJM leaders for talks and the Morcha directed two of its MLAs to leave for Delhi.  “This time, we need a concrete solution. This looks to be the final battle for Gorkhaland. If we cannot reach a permanent solution, these disruptions and violence would recur,” said Rai.