Agitation in Darjeeling: Stonepelting as Bimal Gurung’s home raided
KOLKATA: Violence in the hills of Darjeeling has only escalated in the past seven days after Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee ordered a “special audit” into the Gorkhaland Territorial administration. At least a dozen government properties, including offices, police outposts and tourist lodges have been torched so far.  The situation worsened on Thursday following a raid on the residence of Bimal Gurung, chief of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which forced GJM supporters to clash with the cops. The police claimed that they seized arms and huge amounts of money from Gurung’s residence. Hours after the clash, Banerjee said any attempt to disturb peace in the region would be dealt with. “If anybody wants to break the law, then law will also take its own course.  Government would take actions according to the law,” she said.  SS Ahluwalia, BJP MP from Darjeeling, said that a conducive environment should be created to begin talks. “The police action needs to stop immediately as it will only make things worse. And if the government really wanted to conduct an audit on GTA, why did they wait for five years?” he wondered.  The GJM issued a statement condemning the raids and the subsequent violence. “Today’s raid is another intimidation tactic used by the Bengal government to put fears among our supporters, and suppress the Gorkhaland movement that has gained widespread currency in the hill region,” said Binoy Tamang, assistant general secretary of the Morcha.  Rubbishing the claims of police about the seizure of “arms and explosives”, he said, “West Bengal Police raided the residence of our president and have claimed to recover ‘heavy arms and explosives’.  But all they have found are a few bows and couple of dozen of arrows, few rusted spades, a rusted axe and sickle, and a couple of boxes of fire crackers.”  He said that the hill people, who are “predominantly tribals”, keep these tools in their homes. “We are deeply hurt that the Bengal government is portraying our traditional equipment as weapons. We strongly feel that this is a blatant misrepresentation and misinterpretation of our cultural and traditional tools, and this is the reason why we need Gorkhaland.”  Meanwhile, Anuj Sharma, ADG, Law and Order, said that the ‘goondaism’ in the hills would be dealt with. “The arms recovered from Gurung’s residence were not traditional. This is not a movement, but an attempt to create unrest. We will explore all legal routes.”